A gunman has stormed a New Year’s party at a house in Brazil, killing eleven people including his ex-wife and eight-year-old son.It happened in the southeastern city of Campinas, about 100 kilometres from Sao Paulo. Reports say the man then shot himself dead. Several other people were said to have been injured in the rampage.Three were taken to hospital while four people were unharmed in the attack.Media reports have identified the gunman as a man in his forties who was angry over a split with his wife.One neighbour said he and his family thought the gunshots were fireworks until a wounded person ran out of the house pleading for help.Although gun crime is high in Brazil, targeted mass killings are rare.
The Africa Eco race is back. The race has been held in North Africa since 2009.After starting in Monaco, it speeds from Morocco to Mauritania to Senegal where the winners will be crowned on January 14. Between now and then are 12 stages and more than 6500 kilometres. The first stage covers 610 kilometers on hard and stony ground from Nador to Domaine Mouly.Pål Anders Ullevålseter has dominated the race in recent years winning the 2015 and 16 editions. Gev Teddy Sella from South Africa took the honours by coming home first. He was followed by the Italian Paolo Ceci 16 seconds behind.In the cars category Vladimir Vasilyev and Konstantin Zhiltsov from Russia took the honours in their Mini.Ford Drivers Theirry Magnaldi and his partner Francois Borsotto were second 1min 3secs behind.Mathieu Serradori and Belgian Fabian Lurquin were third more than five minutes behind the leaders.Andrey Karginov, Andrey Mokeev and Dimitri Nikitin from Russia won the race in the truck category.The next stage takes the drivers over 393 kilometres from Doumaine Moulate to Tagounite where the drivers will face their first difficult challenge among the sand dunes.
Stage two of this year’s Africa Eco Race took the competitors over 393 kilometres from Moulay Domain to TagouniteItalian Paolo Ceci won the stage in the bikes category.The Honda rider also moved into the overall race lead.Gev Teddy Sella followed his opening stage victory with a second place finish in Tagounite.The South African KTM rider is now one minute and 19 seconds off the overall pace.It could have been a lot worse for Sella who recovered well from an over-the-handle-bars spill during the day’s action.Russian Vladimir Vasilyev maintained his perfect start to this year’s edition.The mini driver won his second straight stage to open up a sizeable gap at the top of the car standings.He holds just over a 25 minute lead on Frenchman Thierry Magnaldi who was fourth on the day.Crossing the stage finish line in second was Magnaldi’s fellow countryman Pascal Thomasse in his Optimus MD.Thomasse was just under 21 minutes off Vasilyev’s pace but it move him up 16 places into fourth overall at 35 minutes.Andrey Karginov strengthened his grip in the Trucks category with two wins from two.The Russian Kamaz driver is now some 22 minutes clear of Czech Tatra driver Jaroslav Valtr.
A French farmer has gone on trial in Nice, charged with illegally transporting migrants across the French-Italian border, within France, and with helping them to find residence in France.37-year old Cédric Herrou was supported by a large crowd of activists and well-wishers at his court appearance. Banners were waved reading “I am Cédric” and “crime of solidarity”.A local newspaper lauded him as man of the year.Speaking before the hearing, Herrou said that any law against helping those in need should be changed. He believed that the true purpose of the law should be to make society function and enable people to live in harmony.Fellow residents of the Roya Valley in the Alps have been resisting anti-immigration sentiment by offering aid to African migrants, particularly children, who have entered Europe illegally. Most of those they have helped have been from Eritrea and Sudan.Lucia Palermo, an Italian artist from Ventimiglia, said that she was concerned about the discrepancy between the acceptance of assistance given to Europeans and the condemnation of help provided to migrants from outside Europe, including refugees.The prosecutor in this case has asked for an eight-month suspended sentence, with driving restrictions. Under French law, Herrou could have faced up to five years in prison and a 30,000 euro fine.The farmer remains unbowed, vowing to continue his work until the state takes responsibility for the plight of migrants.A decision is expected on February 10.
Drama struck the Dakar rally on Thursday as defending bikes champion Toby Price suffered a heavy crash late in Stage 4 of the event, from San Salvador de Jujuy in Argentina to Tupiza in Bolivia.The Australian was leading the leg but sustained a broken left femur in the crash with just 45 kilometres of the 416km test remaining.He was airlifted to hospital and was forced to withdraw.Price’s KTM teammate Matthias Walkner from Austria went on to claim the stage win while Joan Barreda from Spain was second extending his overall race lead to over 18 minutes over Chilean Husqvarna rider Pablo Quintanilla.But it was not to last. On Friday, organisers announced that Barreda had been given a one hour penalty for refueling outside the authorised zone which made Quintanilla the leading rider.Frenchman Cyril Despres took the overall lead in the car category following his first win this edition.The five-time Dakar bikes champion steered his Peugeot across the line first as former leader Sebastien Loeb lost time and Carlos Sainz rolled his Peugeot.Former World Rally Championship driver Mikko Hirvonen was second while multiple Dakar Rally winner and defending champ Stephane Peterhansel was fourth on the day and now second overall.Sainz, who had been in second place overall at the beginning of the stage, later confirmed that he was withdrawing, saying: “It is obviously devastating to have to retire.”
Russian leader Vladimir Putin ordered a campaign to hurt Hillary Clinton and help Donald Trump’s electoral chances in last year’s presidential campaign, according to a declassified report by US intelligence agencies.They assess ‘with high confidence’ that Russian military intelligence supplied WikiLeaks with information obtained from hacking Clinton’s Democratic party and its officials.Two weeks before his inauguration as president, Trump received his own briefing on the report.However he has refused to endorse its findings and defends the legitimacy of his election win.Vice President-Elect Mike Pence told reporters in New York on Friday that Trump would act firmly aginst cyber hacking from the outset.“The president-elect has made it very clear that we are going to take aggressive action in the early days of our administration to combat cyber attacks and protect the American people from this type of intrusion in the future,” Pence said. The report concluded that both Democratic and Republican parties were targeted by cyber hacking.Donald Trump tweeted late on Friday that the Democrats were guilty of ‘gross negligence’ for ‘allowing hacking to take place’.Gross negligence by the Democratic National Committee allowed hacking to take place.The Republican National Committee had strong defense!Russia denies any suggestion that it was involved in hacking during the US election campaign.
Stage six of this year’s Dakar Rally was cancelled on Saturday due to extreme weather conditions in Bolivia.Whilst competitors and staff waded their way through the rain-drenched bivouac, scouts sent out by organisers to check the 786km test from the mining town of Oruro to the Bolivian capital La Paz reported deteriorating terrain.The competitors will now have two rest days before the race resumes on Monday with stage 7, which runs from La Paz to Uyuni and covers a total of 622km, of which 322 km will be timed.Heading into Monday’s challenge Britain’s Sam Sunderland leads the motorcycle standings on his KTM while French multiple Dakar Rally champion Stephane Peterhansel from France is on top in the car category in his Peugeot. 
Israel is reeling from a truck attack on a group of soldiers in Jerusalem, which killed four and wounded 13 others. Police identified the driver as a Palestinian.It was the deadliest attack in Jerusalem in months. Visiting the site Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters the attacker is likely to have been inspired by the so-called Islamic State.“We are here after a brutal and tragic terror attack where four soldiers were murdered, three female soldiers and a male soldier. We know the identity of the attacker, according to all the signs he was a supporter of the Islamic State. We have blockaded Jabel Mukaber, the neighbourhood he came from,” Netanyahu said in a statement.A witness told local media that the truck ploughed into a crowd of people, before reversing back over them. The driver was shot dead at the scene. At least 37 Israelis and two visiting Americans have been killed over the past 15 months in a wave of street attacks. Some 231 Palestinians have been killed in Israel, the occupied West Bank and the Gaza strip during the same period.
Stage seven in the Africa Eco race, and the competition is hotting up, with the special stage on Monday between Assi Loubbou and Tiwilit representing 414 kilometres of torture for both man and machine.It was the competitors’ first taste of the Mauritanian sand dunes, and they posed problems for nearly everyone.Paulo Ceci took third in the special on his Honda Africa Twin, which is faster but also much heavier than his rivals’ KTMs.But it was the power that let the Italian down, dropping inexplicably off after a refuelling stop, and allowing two riders to get past him.Bike category leader Gev Sella finished second on the day, enough to retain his race lead. The Israeli was handed a nine-minute penalty on Sunday for time infringements, but shrugged the handicap off.Romping to his first stage win this year was Pal Anders Ullevalseter, who has won two previous Africa Eco races. It was enough to take him up into thrid overall, nearly 50 minutes behind the leader.Mr Consistency in the 2017 race so far in the cars section has been Andrey Cherednikov. The Kazakh has driven his Ford shrewdly since the start, and was third overall on Monday, good enough to take him up to second overall.After engine problems ruined his chances of victory on Sunday, France’s Thierry Magnaldi turned on the heat in a furious drive to give thanks to his mechanics, who worked all night to allow him to take second place.Race leader Vladimir Vasilyev had his own problems, getting buried in the sand at one point for half an hour, but he still won the stage and is now 1 hour and 40 minutes ahead of Cherednikov.
Smoking is on the rise according to the World Health Organisation and the costs far outweigh global revenues from tobacco taxes.The habit costs the global economy more than 1-trillion euros a year and will kill one third more people by 2030 than it does now, with more than 80 percent occuring in low and middle-income countries.Tobacco-related deaths are projected to go up from six million annually to about eight million by 2030.Around 80 percent of smokers live in such countries and although smoking prevalence is falling globally, the total number of smokers worldwide is growing.
Seven times champions Egypt have reached the final of the Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon after beating Burkina Faso 4-3 in a penalty shootout.Regulation time ended 1-1 after Mohamed Salah opened the scoring for Egypt on 66 minutes before Aristide Bance leveled just seven minutes later.Veteran goalkeeper Essam El Hadary turned out to be the hero for Egypt on the night.He saved Bertrand Traore’s effort from the spot in the deciding penalty shootout to secure victory.In the final they will face either Cameroon or Ghana, who face off in the other semi on Thursday.
Italy’s prime minister has signed a memorandum of understanding with Libya to curb the flow of migrants to Europe.Rome has pledged money, training and equipment to help the UN-backed Libyan government to manage its vast desert borders and boost its limited coast guard fleet. Libya’ s prime minister flew to Rome on the eve of an EU summit to sign the agreement. “It’s an agreement which strengthens the cooperation between Italy and Libya in many areas. There is need for development, stability, reconstruction, rebirth of unity.  On the other side the agreement commits Italy to strongly support Libya,” Italy’s premier Paolo Gentiloni said.The Mediterranean route is now the main gateway to Europe, with some 180,000 arrivals in Italy last year. Libya’s government is struggling to establish control over its territory, with various factions contesting power, a situation which allows people smugglers to operate with impunity.
Norway’s intelligence services say hackers suspected of having links to Russia have broken into the computer systems of numerous state bodies. Among those targeted were the Norwegian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Radiation Protection agency and the Police Security Service. A hackers group known as APT 29, also known as “Cozy Bear”, has been blamed. Erna Solberg, the Norwegian Prime Minister, told reporters: “These are attacks on the democratic control systems in our country. “That goes for attacks on the government, the Foreign Ministry, the Norwegian Armed Forces and on political parties.”Cozy Bear is suspected of having links to authorities in Russia and interfering with the US elections, claims denied by Moscow. Norway has not said what damage, if any, was caused by the latest hacks, but politicians and officials are being warned to be careful with their data.
Taking the top spot in her list of 144 election pledges is ‘the return of France’s sovereignty’. If she comes to power, National Front leader Marine Le Pen has promised to go directly to Brussels. What will she say to European leaders? Her right-hand man, Florian Philippot, gave euronews the response.“She’ll say ‘the people have given me a mandate. I want to recover the great French sovereignties that you have stolen from us. Monetary, budgetary, territorial – both our actual and legislative borders, so that French laws take precedence over European ones.’ “And either Brussels will say yes, we’ll change Europe completely. And after the resulting referendum, we’ll say that France can stay because this is no longer the European Union that we know, it’s a Europe of free and sovereign nations. Or, Europe says no and in that case we’ll say after a referendum ‘we’re leaving the EU’.”‘The EU is a failure’, Marine Le Pen has claimed. Spending power, a migrant crisis, a series of terror attacks… And now the UK is serving as an example.“France needs to leave the EU, exactly as England has done. Already, in terms of the euro, we’ve lost. It’s been a catastrophe, compared to the franc. And the Schengen agreement has also been a catastrophe,” said one National Front supporter.Another added:Euronews reporter Anne Devineaux gave her analysis of the Lyon rally.“After Brexit, Marine Le Pen’s followers believe more strongly than ever in the possibility of ‘Frexit.’ Because, they’ve never believed more fervently in their victory. Europe can do nothing but wait restlessly for the as-yet-uncertain outcome of this French presidential election.”
The Israeli parliament has approved a controversial bill to “legalise” some 4,000 settler homes built on privately owned Palestinian land in the occupied West Bank.The law retrospectively supports the construction, with the original landowners being compensated either with money or alternative land even if they do not agree to give up their property.Opponents have called the so-called “Regulation Bill” “theft” and “a land grab” and intend to take the legislation to Israel’s Supreme Court.Legal expert Professor Yael Ronon said the bill could be in conflict with international law but that is of little relevance.  “Under Israeli Constitutional law, Israeli law takes precedence over international law. So, arguing on the basis of international law may be not a very strong argument before the Supreme Court. That does not mean that it’s not a violation, it just means that under the procedures of this Supreme Court that may not be a relevant argument. So the bill may pass the scrutiny of the Supreme Court while still being the violation of Israeli and international law.”The new law is the latest in a series of pro-settlement moves by Israel since the inauguration of US President Donald Trump. In the past fortnight some 6,000 new Jewish settlement homes have been announced in the occupied Palestinian territories.The international community overwhelmingly opposes settlements and sees them as an obstacle to peace.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is currently visiting the UK for talks with Prime Minister Theresa May.
After 166 years of regularly losing the world’s oldest sporting trophy, the America’s Cup, Britain is getting serious about challenging again, and Land Rover BAR have high hopes Launched in Bermuda, the boat was named ‘Rita’ by Sir Ben Ainslie’s wife Lady Georgie Ainslie and daughter Bellatrix. The name has a winning pedigree – Sir Ben has used it throughout his career.The boast is the fruit of collaborative design work by Land Rover and Jaguar combining aerodynamics, AI, virtual modelling, and self-learning car technologies. If all that can
 After three days of debate and the scrutiny of over 140 pages of amendments Westminster has passed The European Union Notification of Withdrawal Bill.The Commons voted 494 in favour and 122 against while some MPs sang and whistled the EU anthem, ‘Ode to Joy’.The vote ratifies permission for the government to trigger Article 50 and begin a two-year negotiation process with the EU before leaving the bloc.
This is the Brief from Brussels, a roundup of the top stories from Europe’s de facto political capital. In this edition: Grexit might be back on the table; Scottish MPs sing for the EU, and Ukraine’s PM seeks support in Brussels.
Tens of thousands of people have been flocking to the tomb of Fidel Castro, who died in November aged 90. Its location was one of the most tightly kept secrets, but now it has become one of the most important and visited sites in Cuba. A simple stone lies in the Santa Ifigenia cemetery in the eastern city of Santiago – the birthplace of Castro’s revolution. ‘‘When you come to visit his tomb, you are going to see that he did not build a big monument, it’s a stone, a small stone, which is significant because it’s the way that he saw his revolution,” said Michael Derowin, a Canadian tourist.“He was a very humble person and it’s very nice to see this.’‘President Raul Castro has barred the naming of streets and monuments after his late brother. Statues are also not allowed, in keeping with the former leader’s desire to avoid a cult of personality.
This is the Brief from Brussels, a roundup of the top stories from Europe’s de facto political capital.In this edition: EU Commission chief Juncker unveils his view of a post-Brexit bloc at 27 countries; migration remains a hot topic, and MEPs vote on whether to strip Marine Le Pen of her parliamentary immunity over the publication of ISIS photos.
Donald Trump’s Attorney General Jeff Sessions has stepped aside from investigations into alleged Russian interference in the US presidential election.The country’s top prosecutor said he was recusing himself from the probe over “matters that deal with the Trump campaign”.However, Mr Sessions denied any wrongdoing following revelations he met twice with Russia’s ambassador during Mr Trump’s election battle, saying the meetings were in his capacity as Senator, not as a campaign aide.He had faced calls to resign altogether after some Democrats accused him of lying about meetings with Moscow representatives when he was quizzed on the issue during his Senate confirmation hearing in January.“I have recused myself in the matters that deal with the Trump campaign,” Sessions told reporters at a news conference after several of his fellow Republicans in Congress called for him to recuse himself.Sessions said he had been weighing recusal – ruling himself out from any role in the investigations – even before the latest twist of the controversy over ties between Trump associates and Russia that has dogged the early days of his presidency.
Increasing numbers of civilians are said to be escaping the fighting in Mosul as Iraqi forces try to oust ISIL militants.Meanwhile the US-backed forces say they’ve captured another district in their push towards the city centre.The International Committee of the Red Cross has reported an apparent chemical attack, injuring several people.Rozhawa hospital close to #Mosul admitted 7 patients showing clinical symptoms consistent with an exposure to a toxic chemical agent. #IraqAs many as 12 people are said to have been injured. According to a Red Cross doctor, some displayed symptoms suggesting a chemical agent.It reportedly followed a mortar attack fired from west Mosul which is still held by the so-called Islamic State. The UN’s refugee agency says rising numbers of people are fleeing Mosul.“We have noted a significant increase in displacement in the last week, 30,000 in west Mosul, 4,000 a day or so,” said UNHCR spokesman Matthew Saltmarsh in Geneva.An idea of how bad things have been comes from Khatla Ali Abdallah, one of those to leave with her family for a camp outside the city.“Throughout my whole life I never lived through a war like this one even during wars under Saddam Hussein, we did not feel afraid the way we feel now. It is true that there were wars and many of our sons were killed, but they were different from this war,” the 90-year-old said.Several thousand ISIL militants and several hundred thousand civilians are thought to be still inside Mosul.A 100,000-strong force of Iraqi troops, Kurdish peshmerga fighters and Iranian-trained Shi’ite Muslim paramilitary groups are engaged in an offensive to remove ISIL from the city, the militants’ last major stronghold in Iraq.
On the rise in the Netherlands: Prime Minister Mark Rutte’s centre-right VDD party has overtaken its far-right rival in the polls ahead of this month’s election.It is projected to win between 23 and 27 seats – on course to guarantee a place in a coalition. No single party has won outright for over a century.But polls can be unreliable, and Dutch politics in particular is unpredictable.“We are now number one in the polls, but we still have the Freedom Party just behind us, Geert Wilders, so there is still a big risk that he could come out number one, so I think that it would be very bad news. I will fight very hard for my party to get out first,” Rutte said on Thursday as he campaigned in Amsterdam.Despite its slight slide in the polls, Geert Wilders is still confident that his Party of Freedom can emerge as the largest party in parliament.But it’s unlikely to enter government. Other parties have ruled out working with the anti-Islam, anti-immigrant, anti-EU firebrand.“Mr Rutte is right, there is a very big chance the PVV will be the biggest party in the Netherlands after the elections,” Wilders said on Friday while campaigning in the town of Volendam. “But I don’t agree with what he says that we do wrong kind of populism. We say what people want to hear when it comes to immigration, integration, Islam, problems which are real.”Rutte is campaigning on the strength of the Dutch economy: growth this year is predicted to be well above – and unemployment well below – the eurozone average.Whatever the likelihood or otherwise of Wilders getting a foothold on power, an election “victory” should his party top the polls would have a highly symbolic impact. Wilders’ party is essentially a one-man band with a one-page manifesto, yet his impact on the political scene has arguably already influenced policy.“Internationally it would mean that people say the next domino has fallen, no matter who eventually governs,” Rutte was quoted as saying. “After Brexit, the US, also the Netherlands – then France, Italy, Germany will follow. If you look at the chaos that arose in the US and the UK, then it’s essential we avoid that.”The outcome of the Dutch election is made harder to predict by the presence of several parties who are predicted to win enough seats – thanks to proportional representation – to put them in with a shout of a coalition place.One is the centrist Democrats 66 party, which is currently running fourth. It has benefited from the decline of the Labour party, which has been deserted by many of its voters for supporting in coalition Rutte’s government through years of austerity.“It’s my ambition to form a coalition, a stable coalition and it’s my personal ambition to become prime minister,” D66 leader Alexander Pechtold said while campaigning in the town of Leiden on Saturday.The Dutch go to the polls on March 15 for the first of three in European Union founder member countries this year.
Veterinarians removed 915 coins from the stomach of this 25-year old turtle. She had reportedly been swallowing the coins which had been thrown into her pool in the hope of good luck in return. The build-up of coins had begun to affect Omsin’s ability to swim properly. ‘Omsin’ means ‘piggy bank’ in Thai. The green sea turtle had been living at a conservation centre in Sriracha, Chonburi, about an hour and a half south east of the capital Bangkok. Nantarika Chansue of Chulalongkorn University’s veterinary science faculty said the coins accounted for about 10% of Omsin’s total body weight, as 5kg.Her rear end was struggling to remain buoyant with the added weight in her stomach. Vets said they believed the seven-hour operation was the first of its kind, and they say it will take about seven months of therapy and recovery before Omsin is back to normal.
Holders Real Madrid reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League after beating Napoli in the last 16.Napoli completely outplayed the visiting Spaniards in the first half but only had Dries Mertens’ 24th minute goal to show for it.Real sprung into life in the second half.Sergio Ramos headed home the equalizer before a Mertens own goal put Real in front.A late strike by Alvaro Morata then sealed a 3-1 win on the night for a 6-2 aggregate victory.Elsewhere Arsenal were sent crashing out of the competition at the last 16 stage for a seventh successive season.Bayern Munich were too good for the Gunners in London and just as they did two weeks ago, the Germans enjoyed an emphatic 5-1 victory.Arturo Vidal scored a double while Robert Lewandowski, Arjen Robben and Douglas Costa also scored as the five-times European champions cruised into the last eight 10-2 on aggregate.
In Donald Trump’s Washington these days, how to deal with Russia is not a diplomatic topic, but boils down to one question: who in the Trump camp spoke to which Russian at which time and then denied it happened?It’s a constantly changing story that already produced some collateral damage.Trump’s first National Security Advisor Michael Flynn was forced to resign after just weeks in office and Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from any investigation related to Russia’s covert activity to undermine the 2016 US presidential election.But there is another, less publicized story and that is the shock and horror within Washington’s foreign policy establishment that Trump is shattering the longtime consensus for treating Russia as a bitter enemy.Trump repeatedly praised Vladimir Putin and even mocked the US intelligence community’s assessment that Russia hacked into the computer system of his opponents at the Democratic Party. Washington’s foreign policy elite “exhausted” by TrumpWhether left or right, “most of the U.S. foreign policy establishment had spent the hours since noon on January 20 in alternating states of fear, rage, dismay, bewilderment and mental exhaustion”, writes Susan Glasser in Politico Magazine.“They were all asking the same questions: Would he destroy the liberal international order? Hand our secrets to the Russians? Ruin NATO? Blunder into another war in the Middle East after he was done firing all the State Department bosses and sending uncooperative national security bureaucrats into exile? Did he have any idea what he was doing?”While the US reporters are busy trying to get to the bottom of Trump’s Russia connection story, a serious debate about how US policy toward Vladimir Putin’s Russia should look like is lacking – at least in most of the mainstream media.But recently, Russia experts in think tanks and professional Kremlin watchers have offered ideas of what the Trump administration’s policy toward Russia should look like.There is urgency. “Russia is taking advantage of the moment”, says Charles Kupchan, a senior advisor to President Barack Obama. “We need to be very forthright of the danger that they pose to western politics.”Putin is the most dangerous global player for the US and “deserves a very firm stand”, Kupchan says. Trump: “Why not get along with Russia?”Trump inherited a ruptured US-Russian relationship, the culmination of decades of alternating hopes and disappointments. As both a candidate and president-elect, he repeatedly called for a new approach. “Why not get along with Russia?” Trump repeatedly asked.“The answer is that at the heart of the breakdown lie disagreements over issues that each country views as fundamental to its interests. They cannot be easily overcome with the passage of time or a summit meeting or two”, write Eugene Rumer, Richard Sokolsky and Andrew Weiss in the March/April issue of Foreign Affairs.“Thus, the challenge for the new administration is to manage this relationship skillfully and to keep it from getting worse.”“Should Trump instead attempt to cozy up to Moscow, the most likely outcome would be that Putin would pocket Washington’s unilateral concessions and pursue new adventures or make demands in other areas. The resulting damage to U.S. influence and credibility in Europe and beyond would prove considerable.”But a more confrontational approach would risk inviting a provocative response from Russia. So Washington will need to chart a middle path, the experts conclude.That means both seeking ways to cooperate with Moscow and pushing back against it when necessary without sleepwalking into a collision.Possibility of war in Europe “frighteningly real”And after Putin’s aggression in Ukraine, a collision does not seem outlandish. It rather “makes the possibility of a war in Europe between nuclear-armed adversaries frighteningly real,” writes Kimberley Marten in a new Council on Foreign Relations report on tensions between Russia and NATO.She outlines how US policymakers can deter Russian aggression with robust support for NATO, while reassuring Russia of NATO’s defensive intentions through clear words and actions based in international law.Marten, a professor of political science at Barnard College and Columbia University, lays out several scenarios that could lead to a dangerous confrontation, ranging from an inadvertent encounter between NATO and Russian military aircraft or ships to an intentional Russian land grab in Europe.Preparing for such a crisis, the Trump administration should therefore reaffirm the unequivocal US commitment to the defense of Europe, sustain US troop deployment in Poland and rely on superior capabilities (like cyber capabilities and the threat of sanctions) to deter Russia.Finally, Washington should encourage the European allies to think creatively about measures that would significantly raise the costs for Russia of attacking NATO and therefore make such an attack less attractive and less likely, according to Marten. Beware of Putin, the consummate deal-makerAnd it would be irresponsible for Trump to turn a blind eye to the Kremlin’s reliance on hacking, disinformation, and Cold War–style subversion in its efforts to undermine the American international reputation and to meddle in democratic processes in Europe and beyond, write Rumer, Sokolsky and Weiss.They believe that the Kremlin is likely to try to downplay sources of tension between Washington and Moscow, setting the stage for friendly initial encounters with the new U.S. president and his team.Assuming Moscow follows that course, Washington will have to proceed with caution as Putin, the consummate deal-maker, seeks to shape the terms of a new relationship.“But policymakers must keep in mind that the abiding goal should be to advance U.S. interests, support U.S. allies across the world, and uphold U.S. principles—not to improve relations with Russia for their own sake.”
At least seven people have been injured in an axe attack at Dusseldorf train station. Three people were severely injured, while four suffered light injuries, the “local police in Germany confirmed“http://www.presseportal.de/blaulicht/pm/13248/3581306 .One man has been arrested, local police confirmed, correcting earlier reports of multiple arrests. He has been identified as a 36-year-old man from the Former Yugoslavia who lives in Wuppertal. They described the suspect as having ‘mental health problems’.His motive remains unclear, but police are not describing it as a ‘terror’ attack.Searches are ongoing in the station and the surrounding area, although as yet there is no information about further attackers.The country is on high alert after a string of terror attacks. The latest, less than three months ago, a man drove a truck into a Christmas market in Berlin, killing twelve people.
In part of the world where barriers are all too real, Israeli and Palestinian women are breaking them down.Dozens on each side of the divide took part in a protest on Friday on the outskirts of Jerusalem.They smashed down an improvised wall in a strong symbolic gesture and then marched together, escorted by Israeli security forces.All the women taking part know the cost of the conflict only too well. They have all lost an immediate family member.“I know that there is big hatred and sensitivity between Muslims and Israelis and Jews and Arabs and this is related to history,” said peace and disability activist Ikhlas al-Shatiya, who explained that her father was killed in 2004 at the hands of an Israeli settler.“But I can say that we can break this because we share the same pain and I don’t want any Israeli daughter to feel sad for the loss of her father as I am now suffering from grief and sadness.”The protest was organised by the The Parents Circle – Families Forum,  a group that has brought hundreds of grieving Israelis and Palestinians together to share their pain and dare to dream of a different future.
The death toll has risen above 250 following a giant landslide that sent mud and debris crashing onto homes in southwest Colombia.Hundreds more men, women and children are injured and missing, with a state of emergency declared in the region around the small city of  Mocoa where hours of torrential rain caused rivers to overflow, triggering what has been called ‘an avalanche’ of muddy water.The military has been deployed in a giant rescue operation and Colombia’s President Juan Manuel Santos has travelled to the disaster zone.Admitting authorities don’t know how many people are under the mud, he told reporters: “We continue to search. The first thing I would like to say is that my heart, our hearts and the hearts of all Colombians are with the victims of this tragedy.”Landslides are not uncommon in Colombia but the scale of this disaster is daunting. And as efforts to find survivors continue, the fear and the warning is that the latest death toll of 254 is likely to rise further.
Conservative Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic won Serbia’s presidential election by a landslide on Sunday, confirming his domination of the Balkan country balanced between the West and Russia.With more than 55 percent of the vote according to a projection, he avoids a run-off for the largely ceremonial post which he is now poised to take on at the end of May.He is expected to retain de facto power through his control of Serbia’s ruling Progressive Party.“For me it is important that this election demonstrated that a large majority of Serbian citizens favour the continuation of the European path while maintaining close ties with China and Russia,” Vucic told cheering supporters.The result is a political humiliation for the opposition, not least Vucic’s nearest rival, centrist and former rights advocate Sasa Jankovic, trailing on just 16.2 percent, according to the projection by the Ipsos polling group.
A mock cemetery has been put outside the EU Commission. Brussels is about to host a major conference on Syria and the grave yard, which was erected by charity Save the Children, aims to raise awareness over the plight of children in the war-torn country. Last year was the deadliest for minors since Syria’s civil war began. At least 652 were killed. But the figure only includes verified deaths, meaning the actual number could be much higher.
Against a backdrop of protests Hungary’s parliament has passed a new law which critics say targets a university founded by billionaire George Soros. The 199-seat assembly voted 123 to 38 in support of the draft legislation, which passes tough new restrictions on foreign universities.Defending the fast-tracked bill, the Hungarian government minister Zoltan Balog said: ‘‘To operate under this new law is not impossible. It applies to everyone and we expect everyone to comply. Even the organisations of George Soros should not be above the law in Hungary.’‘Budapest’s Central European University (CEU), which was founded by Soros and considered a bastion of liberalism, is thought to be the main target of the new law. Staff and students fear the school could be forced to close. “It was clearly an intention to pass this law as soon as possible and without listening to anybody, without listening to Hungarian citizens, Hungarian academics, Hungarian universities, without listening to international organizations, they didn’t listen to anyone,’‘ Deputy Vice-Chancellor Liviu Matei said. Under the new law foreign universities must have a campus both in the capital and their home country, something CEU doesn’t have. Following the approved law protesters surrounded the university in support of the Soros founded school holding ‘Veto’ signs. Reporting from Budapest Euronews’ Andrea Hajagos said: “Many protesters have brought signs with the word ‘Veto’. That’s because they want Hungary’s president to use his veto and not sign the new law which has been passed by parliament.’‘
Iceland’s parliament is considering a bill that would require businesses to prove they offer equal pay to workers. The legislation, which would be a world first,  aims to close the wage gap between men and women. Iceland ranks first in the World Economic Forum’s 2015 global gender gap index, followed by fellow Scandinavian nations, Norway, Sweden and Finland. Despite that, significant discrepancies between men and women in terms of pay still reportedly exist. The unadjusted gender pay gap in the Island nation of more than 300,000 people is estimated to stand at 17 percent. The new law, which would take effect in January if approved, would see firms face auditing and possible fines if they failed to comply.
Protesters in Argentina have clashed with police during demonstrations against government austerity measures. Security forces used high-powered water cannon and tear gas to control picketers who had blocked the Pan-American Highway in Buenos Aires. The violence erupted during a general strike, the first since President Mauricio Macri took office 16 months ago. Left-wing politician Alejandro Bodart said: Away from the clashes and industrial action Macri was addressing the World Economic Forum in Argentina’s capital. Mocking those who’d decided to walk off the job Macri said: “Good morning, welcome everyone. It is great that today we are here, working.’‘The one day strike action over cuts to government spending and rising prices saw transport services grind to a halt. Teachers, factory workers and other important public sector employees also took part in the walkout.
The refurbishment of Big Ben’s tower is underway and set to last for three years – its biggest repair job for over three decades.The 29 million pound (34 million euro) project will see London’s famous landmark partially covered in scaffolding, although at least one of the four faces should remain visible.It’s also hoped the clock will only be stopped for a few months, enabling the familiar chimes to continue.“There are three real elements to it: there is the repairs to the clock itself, there is the repairs to the fabric of the building, and there is what you might call amenity items, which is putting a lift in and a WC – a toilet at high level and kitchen facilities for the clock makers and other staff who have to go up there,” said Adam Watrobski, Principal Architect at the Houses of Parliament. The tower’s roof has suffered from corrosion, while water seepage threatens the stonework on the 160-year-old building.The last significant repair of the clock and 96-metre tower took place in 1983-85. The current project also aims to restore the clock face surrounds to their original colours as designed in 1856 by architects Charles Barry and Augustus Welby Pugin.The name Big Ben actually only refers to the largest of five bells. The tower was renamed the Elizabeth Tower in 2012 in honour of the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee.
The Palestinian movement Hamas has declared for the first time its willingness to accept a Palestinian state along the 1967 borders, without recognising Israel. Presenting a new document, the group which controls Gaza, dropped its long-standing call for the destruction of Israel. The rhetorical shift is being seen as an attempt by Hamas to soften its image. The Israeli government, however, dismissed it as a PR stunt. The Israeli Prime Minister’s spokesperson David Keyes said: “Hamas’ motivation clearly is to alleviate some of the international pressure against it and what they are trying to do is basically fool the world to say we are not as bad as you think we are, but when you look at what they tell their own people in Arabic, on Al-Aqsa TV, on Hamas’ TV stations, in their mosques, in their schools, they are calling on a daily basis to destroy Israel.”The policy document, which was presented by Hamas’ exiled political leader Khaled Meshaal in Doha, also drops its association with the Muslim Brotherhood. A move, widely seen as an effort to improve ties with Gulf Arab states and Egypt. Meshaal also said Hamas’ fight was not against Judaism as a religion but against what he called “aggressor Zionists”.Hamas’ 1988 founding charter calls for the creation of a Palestinian state which includes present-day Israel and affirms ties to the Muslim Brotherhood. In 1967 Israel captured Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem in a war with Arab states. Israel withdrew from Gaza in 2005. A state along 1967 borders is the goal of Hamas’ main political rival, the Fatah movement led by Mahmoud Abbas. The announcement by Hamas comes two days before Abbas is due in Washington, and days after President Donald Trump said he may travel to Israel this month. In an interview with the Reuters news agency Trump said he saw no reason why there should not be peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Forget the ‘Full Monty’ The themed park  houses guests in domed dwellings that appear the 2015 film ‘The Martian’ starring Matt Damon.“It’s very nice, you can do many activities, it’s like in the movie ‘Martian’ and it’s hot but nice,” says visitor Elay.American tourist Sandy is visiting with her daughter Losy and says it has been an amazing adventure.“We drove around, we saw all kinds of crazy dunes, lots of colours, so I would say adventure would be describing our experience.”The price for the Martian experience starts around 160 euros per-person per-night in September.
Donald Trump has vowed to work on brokering peace between the Israelis and Palestinians.Speaking as he hosted his Palestinian counterpart Mahmoud Abbas at the White House, the US president offered no clues about how he could break the political deadlock and revive stalled peace negotiations.In their first face-to-face meeting, he pressed the Palestinian leaders to “speak in a unified voice against incitement” to violence against Israelis.However, he stopped short of explicitly re-committing the US administration to a two-state solution to the decades-old conflict.“We will get this done,” Trump told Abbas during a joint appearance at the White House.He said he is prepared to act as a mediator, facilitator or arbitrator between the two sides.He quickly reasserted the goal of the creation of a Palestinian state as vital to any rejuvenated peace process.He insisted it must:Israel rejects a full return to 1967 borders as a threat to its security.Speaking through a translator, Abbas told Trump that under “your courageous stewardship and your wisdom, as well as your great negotiations ability,” the Palestinians would be partners seeking an “historic peace treaty.”“It is about time for Israel to end its occupation of our people and our land,” a reference to Jewish settlement building in the West Bank.Reaffirming his commitment to a two-state solution, he called on Israel to recognise Palestinian statehood just as Palestinians recognise the state of Israel.Not really.However, plans are being firmed up for Trump to visit Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem, and possibly Abbas in the West Bank, on May 22-23.US and Israeli officials have, however, refused to confirm details of the visit.Abbas, who governs in the West Bank while Hamas militants rule Gaza, was under pressure at home to avoid making major concessions to Trump.Palestinian officials say it will be hard for Abbas to return to the negotiating table without a long-standing pre-condition of a freeze on Jewish settlement expansion on land Israel occupied in 1967, which Palestinians want for a state.Abbas’ White House talks follow a mid-February visit by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.Netanyahu moved quickly to reset ties after a frequently combative relationship with the Republican president’s predecessor, Democratic President Barack Obama.Trump sparked international criticism at the time when he appeared to back away from supporting a two-state solution.The policy has long been a bedrock policy of successive US administrations and the international community.The last round of US-brokered peace talks collapsed in 2014.
There has been no let-up in Venezuela’s protest movement against leftist President Nicolas Maduro, with clashes between students and police on Thursday.Weeks of unrest in Caracas and beyond have claimed at least 36 lives.With an 18-year-old musician in the national youth orchestra programme one of the latest to die, famed Venezuelan conductor Gustavo Dudamel slammed the violent crackdown.“I urgently call on the President of the Republic and the national government to rectify and listen to the voice of the Venezuelan people,” wrote Dudamel, 36, on his Facebook page.“Times cannot be defined by the blood of our people. We owe our youth a hopeful world, a country where we can walk freely in dissent.”Until now, Dudamel, music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, had maintained a friendly relationship with the government through the youth orchestra programme known as El Sistema.The unrest began in late March, driven by accusations that Maduro is consolidating a dictatorship and anger over chronic product shortages that have left many struggling to eat.His call to rewrite the constitution has further energized the protest movement.In northern Venezuela, authorities said a student leader was killed during a meeting at his university on Thursday.The 33-year-old was said to have been shot several times by one of the participants at the meeting who then fled on a motorbike. It is unclear whether his death is linked to the protest movement.The president of Venezuela’s opposition-controlled National Assembly has taken the fight against Maduro to Washington.At the headquarters of the Organisation of American States, Julio Borges said he had brought a decree from the assembly asking for the OAS to cancel Maduro’s bid to withdraw from the body – a move that would further deepen the diplomatic isolation of the crisis-hit socialist-run nation.Back in Venezuela, family and supporters of jailed opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez continue their anxious wait for news amid rumours about his health, despite the release of a so-called ‘proof of life’ video in which he says he is fine.Lopez, a US-educated economist and leader of the hard-line Popular Will party, is accused of inciting street violence, and in 2015 was sentenced to almost 14 years behind bars.Maduro says his government is the victim of an “economic war.” He often dismisses critics as allies of Washington seeking to destabilise his government or create conditions for a foreign invasion.
A fire at a rubbish depot south of Rome sent a toxic cloud into the skies on Friday, forcing nearby homes and schools to be evacuated.People living in towns near Pomezia, 50 kilometres from the Italian capital, were told to keep their windows shut to avoid breathing in fumes from plastics and other materials.As emergency crews battled the blaze, prosecutors opened an investigation into possible arson. No one has been injured.The fire is now out but the smoke cloud has lingered due to a lack of winds to disperse it.
Thousands of Venezuelan women opposed to the embattled President Nicolas Maduro have marched in Caracas.The women said they were standing up against political oppression and violence, as weeks of unrest in the country continues. National guardsmen have repeatedly fired tear gas and rubber bullets in more than a month of anti-government protests.Pro-government women’s groups were planning a counter-demonstration.Protester Soraya Sanchez said: “We want elections so we can get him out through our vote. “He doesn’t want to, he knows he is losing. He has an 85% unpopularity rating something former President Hugo Chavez never had.“I am not a Chavista I am a member of the opposition, but you must acknowledge things.“I say to him that the time has come, your time is up.”Supporters of Venezuela’s jailed opposition leader, Leopoldo Lopez held a late-night vigil in Caracas. Widespread protesting in the South American country has led to deaths of at least 37 people.
Political newcomer Emmanuel Macron has comfortably won the French election, defeating far-right, anti-EU rival Marine Le Pen.With the vast majority of the votes counted, the centrist has around 65% of the share compared to Le Pen’s 35% in Sunday’s run-off.But it was a record performance for the National Front, who won support for its anti-globalisation and anti-immigration policies.Le Pen’s tally was almost double the score of her father and National Front founder Jean-Marie, who was trounced by the conservative Jacques Chirac in the presidential run-off in 2002.The election was one of the most bitterly-fought and unpredictable in decades, marred by scandals, leaks and data hacks.Macron’s emphatic victory, which has smashed the dominance of France’s mainstream parties, will bring huge relief to European allies who had feared another populist upheaval to follow Britain’s vote to quit the EU and Donald Trump’s election as U.S. president. Follow us here for live updates: In a rousing victory speech outside the Louvre in central Paris, the president-elect recognised the deep divisions in France.He broke off from his speech to stop the crowds from booing at the mention of far-right voters.“I will do all I can to during the next five years so that no-one ever has a reason again to vote for extremists,” he said.Joined by his wife Brigitte, he urged campaigners to help him build a parliamentary majority, crucial if he is to easily carry out his planned reforms. “Our task is huge,” he warned.He earlier made a more solemn speech at his campaign headquarters, vowed to rebuild the link between “Europe and its people”.Macron will become the eighth – and youngest – president of France’s Fifth Republic when he moves into the Elysee Palace after his inauguration next weekend.The 39-year-old former investment banker, who served for two years as economy minister under Hollande has never previously held elected office.Macron’s immediate challenge will be to secure a majority in next month’s parliamentary election for En Marche! (Onwards!), his political movement that is barely a year old, in order to implement his policies. Far-left presidential candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, defeated in the first round of the election, said Macron is planning “a war on the French social system” and called on his voters to mobilise against the ex-banker in parliamentary elections in June.Conceding defeat, Le Pen told her supporters: “The National Front… must deeply renew itself in order to rise to the historic opportunity and meet the French people’s expectations.“I will propose to start this deep transformation of our movement in order to make a new political force.”President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker congratulated, Macron, a keen defender of the EU.He said: “I am delighted that the ideas you defended, of a strong and progressive Europe, which protects all its citizens, will be those that you will carry into your presidency in the debate about the history of Europe.”US president Donald Trump, who previously suggested Le Pen would benefit in the polls from a recent suspected terrorist attack in Paris, tweeted that “I look very much forward to working with (Macron)”.Meanwhile in Paris, demonstrators protested against both Le Pen and Macron.It came after the highest level of second round abstention in decades, 24.8%, with many voters dismayed at the choice between an ex-banker and a far-right firebrand.
Muslim militants fighting for a separate state in the south of predominantly Buddhist Thailand are suspected of carrying out a car-bomb attack outside a supermarket in the city of Pattani.Deputy Police Chief Rewat Srichantub said Muslim insurgents are suspected of carrying out the attack.The bomber is believed to have fled before the explosion, he added.It is the first car bomb in Pattani since August.Defence Ministry spokesman Kongcheep Tantrawanit said the government condemned the bomb attack and considered it a grave violation of human rights.The blast destroyed the front of a Big-C supermarket, scattering debris over a wide area and sending a column of black smoke into the air.No.However, officials say at least 60 people have been injured.Most were discharged from hospital after being treated. However 21 with more serious injuries have been kept in.A decades-old separatist insurgency in the largely ethnic Malay Muslim provinces of Yala, Pattani and Narathiwat had killed more than 6,500 people since 2004.That is according to the independent monitoring group “Deep South Watch”.Attacks in Thailand’s deep south, near the border with Muslim-majority Malaysia, have intensified this year.Six army rangers were killed in an attack last month.The government recently rejected a conditional offer for peace talks from one of the main insurgent groups, the Barisan Revolusi Nasional.The group had demanded international mediation or observation.
The Turks have been greatly upset by the Americans’ offer to arm the Kurdish YPG forces fighting ISIL in northern Syria.Ankara makes no distinction between the YPG and PKK terrorists, both armed Kurdish groups operating out of Iraq and Syria, and fears arms given to the YPG will be used by the PKK in attacks on Turkish forces.The US says the Kurds need the weapons for their assault on Raqqa.“The fight against the terrorist organisation Islamic State should not be carried out with another terrorist organisation. This kind of step would endanger the future of Syria and the region. It’s obvious where the wrong steps taken in the past brought Syria,” said Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The Kurds have been the most effective force fighting ISIL on the ground, and allied with elements of the Free Syrian Army have been celebrating their latest success, the liberation of Tabqa, opening up a stretch of the Euphrates river and opening the road to Raqqa.Raqqa is the Islamic extremists’ Syrian stronghold and their self-proclaimed capital. Fighting for the city is expected to be heavy, and US ground forces are on hand if needed, with some rare footage of US units in northern Syria released on Wednesday.
Donald Trump has announced that the US will withdraw from the 2015 Paris climate change deal.The agreement was originally signed by 195 of 197 nations in a UN climate change group and pledged to limit rises in global temperatures but curbing greenhouse gas emissions.In a widely-trailed decision, Trump said he would negotiate to re-enter the agreement on “terms fair to Americans.”Trump made the announcement in the Rose Garden at the White House.“in order to fulfil my solemn duty to protect the United States and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord. As of today, the United States will cease all impementation of the non-binding Paris accord and the draconian financial and economic burdens the agreement imposes on our country.”The withdrawal was not unexpected but there has nonetheless been an immediate outcry from activists. Critics say the US is abdicating responsibility and leadership on one of the most significant challenges facing the world.
Dr. Mehmet Kanter, father of NBA player and Turkish government-critic Enes Kanter has been arrested in Instanbul, according to Turkish paper Hürriyet and a recent tweet from Enes. This comes days after Turkish officials issued an arrest warrant for the US-based basketball player and seeked assistance from Interpol to extradite him to Turkey.Kanter father’s lost his job in the faculty of medicine at the University of Medeniyet in the purges following last year’s failed coup when thousands were detained and arrested and even more lost their jobs. Dr. Kanter publicly disowned his son in August of last year for his support of the Hizmet Movement and US-based cleric Fethullah Gülen. President Erdoğan and government supporters say Gülen incited the attempted coup in July 2016.Kanter was held an airport in Romania last month after the cancellation of his Turkish passport, for what Kanter says was his criticism of Erdogan’s government. Kanter returned to the United States and says he wants to be an American citizen.
Protesters have gathered in more than 130 cities across the United States to call for an impartial investigation into allegations that Donald Trump’s campaign team colluded with Russia to influence last year’s presidential election.Protesters on the “March for Truth” want an independent commission to supervise the inquiry.They say the four ongoing Congressional hearings into possible links between Trump and Moscow should be free from undue influence.The US president’s supporters were also out in force.For them, Trump can do no wrong.“I’m here to support my president. He’s supporting me. He’s in for jobs, jobs, jobs, he is in to protect this country, to get our defence going properly, we got out of the Paris agreement, which I agree with 100%,” said one of Trump’s supporters.Trump has rejected allegations of collusion. He has dismissed claims that Russian President Vladimir Putin sanctioned a campaign aimed at disrupting the US election last November. Putin says there is no evidence of Kremlin involvement.
The first-ever UN conference on seas and oceans  and their sustainable use has opened in New York with a ceremony lead by group from Fiji.In his opening remarks the UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres called on the world to save the oceans: “Unless we overcome the territorial and resource interests that have blocked progress for far too long, the state of our oceans will continue to deteriorate. We must put aside short-term national gain to prevent long-term global catastrophe. Conserving our oceans and using them sustainable, sustainably, is preserving our life itself.”The UN chief told presidents, ministers, diplomats and environmental activists from nearly 200 countries that oceans—“the lifeblood of our planet“—are being severely damaged by pollution, overfishing and the effects of climate change as well as refuse.The five-day conference, which began on World Environment Day, is the first major event to focus on climate since President Donald Trump announced last Thursday that the United States will withdraw from the landmark 2015 Paris Climate Agreement—a decision criticized by Bolivia’s President Evo Morales and other speakers.However since Trumps’s  decision, more than 1,000 US governors, mayors, and businesses  have declared they will continue to meet the goals of the Paris agreement.
An online movement in support of migrants has been launched by NGO staff, volunteers and refugees in Greece.The #sickofwaiting campaign was set up to urge European countries to take in refugees, while raising awareness of the conditions they face. According to campaigners, their treatment and living conditions are becoming worse, with limited food, shelter and medical supplies. In some cases, they report attacks by locals and even suicides among the refugees. Over 12,000 people and around 25 non-profit organisations have joined the movement.The campaign’s website says: “In 2015, the European countries committed to host 120,759 refugees by September 2017 and 74% are still in a limbo waiting for their destination. “The processes of the families who have applied to be reunited are also stuck. The European governments are failing – but global civil society will not.”Members plan to go to the European Parliament on June 28 to demand the process is sped up.
Like many other young men of his age, 27-year-old Tomáš Pik (photo above) enjoys going out with his friends and meeting girls. But having sex is more complicated. Friedreich’s ataxia, a rare neurological disease that causes movement problems, has confined him to a wheelchair for the past six years ago. Despite his lust for life, girls turn him down and prostitutes have hesitated to have sex with him. That is why he joined the Right to Sex initiative, which promotes sexual assistance for people with disabilities in the Czech Republic, provoking some heated reactions in what is usually an open-minded society where some prostitution is legal.“People with disabilities are taboo and sexuality is taboo. No one really speaks about it. And here, you have people with disabilities and sexuality together – both taboo topics at once,” says Tomáš. Rozkoš bez Rizika, or Pleasure without Risk, has selected and trained five women known as sexual assistants to help disabled Czechs explore their sexuality and satisfy their sexual needs. Their services were approved by the government’s Interior Ministry. Czech sexual assistants are mostly former prostitutes but they do not necessarily offer sex to their disabled clients. Vladana Augstenová from Prague is one of the trained assistants. She used to dance in night clubs and have sex for money to feed herself and her child. But as a sexual assistant, she no longer offers sex. “I use touching, hugging and massages to open up my clients’ sexual energy,” she says. Vladana adds that regardless of disability, everyone can feel an inner pleasure when they connect with their sexuality.  A service with a sexual assistant costs up to 1,200 Czech Crowns (45 Euros) and lasts for one hour. The price is quite high, but Vladana has a very busy schedule. Even though she has mostly male clients, women contact her too. “We realize that these people would be much happier if they had somebody beside them, whom they could live with and experience their sexual needs. “But the reality is different, and therefore, according to our opinion, it’s necessary that there is a possibility of sexual assistance.”Freya is a partner organization of The European Platform Sexual Assistance (EPSEAS) whose mission is to “show that people with disabilities have the right to sexual experiences and adapted assistance that allows them to live their sexuality as they wish“.Sexual assistance for people with disabilities is already adopted by many Western European countries, such as Denmark, Germany, Switzerland and Netherlands. In some of them, governments even partially finance sexual assistance services for their disabled citizens. But Tomáš thinks that it would not be a good idea for his home country. “It is controversial enough that there is something like sexual assistance in Czech Republic, let alone governments – or in other words – citizens, paying for it.“The program as it is, in Lucie’s opinion, makes thousands of disabled people across the country happier and more satisfied. A 44-year-old Czech disabled man who has participated in the sexual assistance program said: “Through the sexual assistance project I had the first opportunity to get to know what it’s like touching a woman’s body.” Lidija Pisker for euronews
Professional punters are backing the ruling Conservatives in the UK’s snap general election, it’s emerged.John Hill, PR manager at UK bookmakers Coral, said the biggest sums had been put on the Tories, with some betting up to 20,000 GBP (23,081 euros).Hill said the odds his firm were offering suggested the election was a “one horse race”.He said among the strangest bets Coral had received was one backing UKIP to pick up the most seats – something Hill said was impossible.He added: “The odds on Labour getting the most seats have crumbled this afternoon and we’re still convinced the Conservatives will pick up the most seats.”Watch the full interview below:
The Astana Expo 2017 has opened with a spectacular ceremony.The event, under the theme of Future Energy takes place between June 10 and September 10.
The bare truth about cycling in a city is that it’s extremely dangerous. That’s the message from hundreds of people who took part in the 14th edition of the World Naked Bike Ride in the Spanish capital, Madrid.Protesters say it’s a reminder that cyclists are constantly exposed with next to no protection“We don’t want any more deaths of cyclists in Madrid and on the highways. There must be more respect for cyclists and people should go out and ride bikes so there’ll be less pollution,” explained Lucy.Nudity is optional but encouraged. People in more than 20 other countries stripped down to the essentials to take part in similar events.  The organisers say being naked in traffic is the best way to reveal how cyclists feel sharing streets with cars and buses.
Demands made of Qatar by four other Arab states are designed to be rejected, Doha’s foreign minister said on Saturday (July 1), adding however that he was ready to discuss their grievances.Their ultimatum is, he insists, aimed not at tackling terrorism but at curtailing his country’s sovereignty.Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani was speaking ahead of a Monday deadline to comply with a list of 13 demands from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Bahrain, which have imposed a de facto blockade on the small Gulf nation.The four countries accuse Qatar of supporting terrorism – a charge it denies.“This list of demands is made to be rejected. It is not meant to be accepted or… to be negotiated,” Sheikh Mohammed told reporters during a visit to Rome .The demands included severing ties with terrorist groups, downgrading ties with arch-rival Iran, closing a Turkish air base in Qatar and shutting down the pan-Arab Al Jazeera satellite channel.“We are not going to accept anything that infringes on our sovereignty or anything that is imposed on Qatar,” Sheikh Mohammed said.He added his country did not fear any military retaliation and believed wisdom would prevail.“We believe that the world is governed by international laws, that don’t allow big countries to bully small countries,” he said. “No one has the right to issue to a sovereign country an ultimatum.”
Donald Trump said on the campaign trail he would like to punch protesters, and now he has gone a stepCNN logo on a man he once joke-wrestled with The spectacle of the President of the United States engaging in a violent act, even if tongue-in-cheek,“I think that no one would perceive that as a threat. I hope they don’t but I do think that he’s beaten up in a wayThis weekend has seen Trump redoubling his attacks on the media, but there has been no let-up in the protests against him
Residents are fleeing Mosul, ISIL’s last major stronghold in Iraq, as the group battles to hold on to the few streets that remain under its control.It was there, exactly three years ago, that the jihadists announced the creation of a self-declared caliphate in parts of Iraq and Syria. Now said to have been pushed into an ever-shrinking area beside the Tigris river, they are making what appears to be a last stand amid a fierce onslaught by pro-government forces. Iraqi authorities say the number of ISIL fighters in Mosul has greatly depleted in the last eight months, so much so that Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi is expected to travel there in the coming days to declare victory.
Iraqi forces continue to eradicate so-called Islamic State positions in Mosul as national politicians reach out to the population who have suffered under the militants since 2014.The army’s Rapid Response division have retaken the city’s biggest hospital on the western side of Mosul.The building has been ravaged by war, over recent weeks a number of ISIL snipers have been perched on the roof of the medical centre, formally the best in Mosul. The small force held hundreds of Iraqi troops at bay for weeks.Those militants that remain are trapped in the Old City a few hundred metres away and have vowed to fight to the death.Iraqi forces began the battle to liberate Mosul in October of last year, the second largest city in Iraq was overrun by ISIL in a matter of days.
His outburst was prompted by just 30 of the European Parliament’s 751 members turning up to a session in Strasbourg to review Malta’s six-month presidency.Juncker’s broadside sparked a furious response from European Parliament president Antonio Tajani.But, did Juncker have a point? To test the idea we’ve talked to experts and looked at what the statistics tell us.No. There are also suggestions the European Parliament doesn’t have sufficient power and is a mere talking shop. This has been disputed amid claims MEPs now have more power and share decision making with ministers from member states.Perhaps the most controversial is the cost of moving the parliament between Strasbourg and Brussels and paying MEPs. Their salaries have been criticised for being too generous and there is a lack of transparency around their expenses.“I don’t think he’s right,” Dr Katjana Gattermann, assistant professor of political communication and journalism at the University of Amsterdam told Euronews. “He’s said MEPs are ridiculous but I think there are three considerations. “Firstly, this was one incident and obviously MEPs were not there. But there are many other incidents when important things happen and there is a full house.”She said MEPs don’t just turn up to parliament and that their absence should be seen in the context of other roles they perform, such as serving their constituencies or preparing for work in committees.Gattermann has also argued  that active MEPs get less press coverage than absent ones. This, she says, leads to a “potential motivational problem” for politicians with ambitions domestically, who may see their time is better served at home.Figures from VoteWatch, an online platform that monitors MEPs’ activities, shows just 16 of 751 members turn up to less than two-thirds of votes.Austria has the best record – their MEPs turn up to 95.7 percent of votes. The UK is the worst: its MEPs, driven by anti-EU party UKIP, turn up to just 81.75 percent of voting sessions.However, the session in which Juncker had his outburst was a plenary session, rather a voting one. Again, the UK has the worst voting record, with MEPs turning up to 81.2 percent of plenary sessions, according to mepranking.eu.However plenary attendance data is said to be less reliable, because it only records MEPs presence in the parliamentary complex, rather than in the actual chamber.Doru Frantescu, director of VoteWatch, told Euronews: “Statistics show that in general MEPs are present, also taking into account that they have to travel from their member states every week.“However, the motivation to go to the plenary depends on the importance and relevance of the debates, as perceived by the MEPs. “During other debates with Mr Juncker the chamber was full. “This time MEPs did not participate as they were not interested in assessing the Maltese presidency, which they saw more as a formality than as an opportunity to have relevant discussions. “However, Juncker had a point when he emphasized that if this were an assessment of a German Presidency under Merkel or French under Macron, the chamber would have probably been full, which highlights that MEPs seem to discriminate against smaller EU countries.”
The moment Presidents Trump and Putin met for the very first time has been captured on amateur video.The images were filmed by the German government on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg.The handshake was not as remarkable as previous ones involving Trump. But the US President did give Putin a pat on the shoulder as both men smiled. The footage also showed the British and Japanese Prime Ministers were present, as well as the European Commission President, Jean-Claude Juncker, and head of the European Council of leaders, Donald Tusk.Trump meeting Putin has been a big talking point, given the accusations of Russian meddling in the US election and with Trump yesterday accusing Putin of “destabilising behaviour”.While the two have previously spoken on the phone, this was the first face-to-face meeting.Officials say the talks lasted for more than two hours, with discussions on Syria and North Korea.Both leaders say they have agreed on a ceasefire in parts of Syria from Sunday.After their talks, Trump told reporters: “We look forward to a lot of very positive things happening, for Russia, for the United States, and for everybody concerned. “It’s an honour to be with you (to Putin). Thank you.” Climate change is top of the agenda at the summit, amid concern about the US pulling out of the Paris climate deal.Trump is said to have attended the leaders’ discussions on climate policy, taking the floor at one point.German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, host of the summit, says nearly all of the G20 leaders agreed on the need for free and fair trade.But differences over how that should work in reality and the issue of protectionism means agreement on a final communique could be difficult.
Italian police say they have arrested a Chechen man suspected of being a militant from the self-proclaimed Islamic State and believed to have been involved in attacks in the southern Russian province in 2014.The 38-year-old was seen being escorted to a police station in Bari before being taken to Foggia. He’s accused of crimes of international terrorism in connection with clashes in Grozny in which at least 20 people were killed, and a school and media offices burned.Police say the arrest was part of a special investigation into foreign fighters from Chechnya.
Berlin and a bus-load of Imams arrived in the German capital on day two of a tour of European cities recently hit by terror attacks.The religious leaders from countries including France, Belgium and Britain are on six-day mission to remember victims and to denounce violence carried out in the name of Islam.Mohamed Taha Sabri, Imam at Dar As-Salam Mosque in Berlin, was emphatic in his statements: “This is not Islam, this is not religion, these are fascists, terrorists, criminals who abuse a world religion, a beautiful religion.”Those behind the initiative “Muslims march against terrorism” believe its not enough to say Islam represents peace, they must be more proactive.Co-organiser and former Imam at the Drancy Mosque in Paris, Hassan Chalghoumi, was also adamant.“I believe it’s our job, the Muslims in Belgium, Germany, in France, in Italy and elsewhere to say no, no to terrorism and no to hate, no to barbarism. Another message is that of brotherhood and love.”The Berlin stop was at a church near the scene of the atrocity last December when a driver rammed into people at a Christmas market killing six and wounding dozens more.Further stops will include Brussels and Nice returning to where the tour began, in Paris on July 14th, the first anniversary of the Nice truck attack.About 30 imams were on the bus departing from Paris on Saturday, according to Reuters, with around 60 expected to participate in total, from countries including France, the U.K., Tunisia, Belgium and Portugal.
A British member of parliament has been suspended after she used racist language.Prime Minister Theresa May took the action against the Conservative Party MP after she said the N-word at a think tank event on the implications of Brexit on the financial services sector.Anne Marie Morris, who campaigned to leave the European Union in the 2016 referendum, was describing her view of what could be done to ensure a good exit agreement in the two years allowed for talks. British news website HuffPost UK published the recording.“And then we get to the real n***** in the wood pile which is, in two years, what will happen if there is no deal,” she told a gathering of politicans, lawyers and senior city figures.She said later she apologised unreservedly for any offence caused. “The comment was entirely unintentional.”May said she had been shocked to hear about the comment, which she described as “completely unacceptable”.“I immediately asked the Chief Whip to suspend the party whip,” May said in a statement. “Language like this has absolutely no place in politics or in today’s society.”Suspending the party whip means Morris is excluded from the party and will sit as an independent, potentially reducing May’s ability to pass legislation. Her government already relies on a smaller party after losing its majority at a June election.Morris can still choose to vote in line with the government, and is likely to continue to do so. May did not say how long the suspension would last or if expulsion was possible.Several lawmakers, both from the main opposition parties and from within the Conservatives, had called for Morris to be suspended for her use of the phrase, believed to be rooted in slavery in the United States.It came to be used to describe something unexpected and wrong but is now generally viewed with disdain as racist.
In a vast network of tunnels carved into the rocks under the Maltese capital Valletta, faded maps of the Mediterranean hint at the island’s role in directing key battles in World War Two.Malta is now restoring 28,000 square metres of tunnels, planning to open a huge section to the public.The compound, hidden under the picturesque port city perched on cliffs above the sea, was built by the British and served as the staging ground for major naval operations. The British military withdrew in 1979 and the compound was abandoned for almost 40 years.German and Italian forces bombarded Malta intensively between 1940 and 1942 in a bid to gain control of the Mediterranean, but did not manage to force the British out. During the Cold War, the tunnels were used to track Soviet submarines.Over the years, water and humidity have let rust and mould spread. Some rooms have been vandalised, but traces of the military apparatus that once occupied the complex still remain. Military cot beds, tangled cables and dust-covered rotary phones litter the rooms.The Malta Heritage Trust, a non-governmental preservation group, began the multi-million dollar restoration of the site in 2009.All these is a part of “The Lascaris War Rooms” and some of them are given to the public for a visit.“The Lascaris War Rooms” consist of an underground complex of tunnels and chambers that housed the War Headquarters from where the defence of Malta was conducted during the Second World War.This ultra secret complex housed an operations room for each of the fighting services which included the hugely important RAF Sector Fighter Control Room from where all air and sea operations were observed and controlled. In July 1943, the War Rooms were used by General Eisenhower and his Supreme Commanders Admiral Cunningham, Field Marshal Montgomery and Air Marshal Tedder as their advance Allied HQ for Operation Husky – the Invasion of Sicily. Following the end of the war, it became the Mediterranean Fleet HQ. In 1967 it was taken over by Nato to be used as a strategic Communication Centre for the interception of Soviet submarines in the Med. It remained in that role for the next ten years when it was finally closed down.  The War Rooms played an active part in the Anglo-French invasion of Egypt during the Suez Crisis in 1956 and went into full alert for a number of days during the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 when a Soviet missile strike against Malta was expected.In 2009, Fondazzjoni Wirt Artna – the Malta Heritage Trust has embarked on the restoration of this historic complex. Since, then its volunteers have spent many selfless hours in painstakingly getting it back to its former glory for the enjoyment of the visiting public.The Lascaris War Rooms will be integrated into the Military Heritage Park.  The Park will cover some 500 years of Malta’s history linking Lascaris War Rooms, the NATO ComCen, St Peter and St Paul counter-guard, the Saluting Battery and the Garrison Chapel crypt. Work on this park is currently being undertaken by FWA.
A small plane was forced to make an emergency landing on a busy beach in Almada, south of Lisbon, on Wednesday, killing two people.The plane came down on Sao Joao da Caparica beach, hitting a 30-year-old man and a five-year-old girl, according to Portuguese reports. The two pilots on board were unharmed and were being questioned by authorities.An eyewitness shared photos of a crowd forming around the plane.
Spain’s La Liga on Thursday rejected payment of a record-breaking release clause that would allow Neymar to leave Barcelona for Paris St Germain, a source from the national soccer league said.A group of lawyers representing Neymar visited La Liga in Madrid on Thursday to try to settle the transfer and pay the 222 million-euro ($263 million) break fee.It was not immediately clear whether La Liga’s refusal to accept payment would put the brakes on the transfer.Spain’s Marca newspaper reported that Neymar and his advisers would turn to FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, requesting a provisional transfer to PSG.The Brazilian striker’s agent Wagner Ribeiro had said on Wednesday that the French club was ready to foot the bill so that Neymar could be presented at PSG at the weekend.La Liga president, Javier Tebas, had already warned in an interview that Spain’s league would not accept payment by PSG to trigger the release clause, saying it was potentially in breach of UEFA Financial Fair Play (FFP) rules.Under the those rules, a club’s wage bill must not exceed 70 percent of its revenue.
The European Union has imposed sanctions on three more Russians, including Deputy Energy Minister Andrei Cherezov, and three Russian companies over the delivery of Siemens’ turbines to Moscow-annexed Crimea.The EU first introduced sanctions on Russia after the 2014 military takeover of the Black Sea peninsula from Kiev, and stepped them up repeatedly as Moscow then backed separatist unrest in the east of Ukraine.The latest tightening comes in response to the delivery of Siemens’ gas turbines to Crimea in violation of EU sanctions, which bar doing business there since the annexation that has not been internationally recognised.Siemens says it has evidence that all four turbines it delivered for a project in southern Russia had been illegally moved to Crimea.The Kremlin spokesman declined to comment earlier on Friday.After the EU announced the move, the state RIA news agency quoted Vladimir Dzhabarov, a deputy head of the international affairs committee of Russia’s upper house of parliament, as saying Siemens operations in Russia may be curbed in response.The EU also said the blacklisted companies include Siemens’ two Russian contractors that moved the turbines.The latest additions complement a blacklist that already contains 150 people and 37 entities subject to an asset freeze and a travel ban over the turmoil in Ukraine.
After nine months of continued conflict, work has begun to rebuild the Iraqi city of Mosul. Many of the residential districts have been heavily damaged, if not completely flattened.With the economy also in ruins, some businessmen don’t want to wait for the possibility of financial support – they have started to repair their shops and restaurants with their own money.Adel Mahmoud is a resident of West Mosul and the owner of a building that is under construction. He says it’s wrong that the international community is not helping with financial aid. “We place responsibility on the central government and on the international community because they are not providing support to this destroyed city that is inhabited by more than 4 million people,” he says. “Its people are displaced and are living in camps, their homes have been destroyed, there is no employment. As for me, in my area, I am reconstructing my shop at my own expense.”A lack of essential services such as running water, power lines, and sewage systems has deterred many from returning, but Kathem Hussein, who has opened a makeshift restaurant for the locals, said life was back to normal and people should come back. “The situation is good, thank God. But we hope that water and electricity will be reinstated, and we ask the people currently in the east to come back here. Life is back to normal.” Before the war, Mosul was Iraq’s second-largest city, known for its ethnic and religious diversity. The battel to take Mosul back may have been won, but the battle to rebuild is only just beginning.
Israel is seeking to close Al Jazeera’s bureau in Jerusalem and revoke its journalists media credentials.It also intends to pull the Qatar-based stations broadcasts from local cable and satellite providers.Communications Minister Ayoub Kara accused the channel of supporting terrorism and said the measures were aimed at bolstering Israel’s security.“Lately, almost all countries in our region have determined that Al Jazeera supports terrorism – supports religious radicalisation. Gulf States, including Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt. We also intend to join them at a summit focused on regional, political, economic and even defence agreements.”The move to expel Al-Jazeera was first voiced by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, two weeks ago when he accused the channel of fueling the violence in Jerusalem at an Old City site which is holy to both Jews and Muslims.Al-Jazeera has come under attack from several governments in the region to the concern of free press campaigners.
Europe should focus more on preventing forest fires than reacting to them once they are out of control, it’s been claimed.Wildfires in Europe have nearly trebled so far this year and experts have blamed climate change for the increase, saying it has extended the forest fire season and increased the frequency of blazes.European countries spend billions of euros each year on putting the fires out, according to the European Forest Institute (EFI).They claim it would be better to put long-term strategies in place to prevent fires, such as making forests more resilient to climate change, managing woodlands better and developing the rural economy.Latest figures show there have been 944 fires in the European Union between January and August this year.That is nearly treble the number of blazes there have been – on average – over the same period in the last eight years.
Brussels prosecutors say a Belgian bomb squad had found no explosives after a man who claimed to be carrying a bomb in his car was stopped by police in the district of Molenbeek. He was detained after leading police on a chase, speeding through a red light, until police shot at the wheels of his car to slow him. The number licence plates on the Citroen Picasso he was driving indicates the car is from Germany. The suspect was unarmed and believed to be mentally unstable.The area was cordoned off and there have been reports of at least two controlled explosions. Molenbeek is known for being the home to the ISIL members who carried out the Paris attacks in 2015.
A tourism boom is putting pressure on one of the most beautiful places on Earth, the isle of Skye in Scotland.It is the scene of Dothraki hordes and pitched battles in TV’s Game of Thrones, but now a tourist horde has descended on the island, and a battle is raging between those who want more, and those who say enough is enough.The island’s transport network is struggling to cope with the vehicle traffic and the rubbish the tourists leave behind, and some complain many people just come to snap the Game of Thrones locations and leave without spending much money. Now the cruise ships are arriving, too, disgorging thousands of people at a time.“I didn’t imagine there’d be so many people, I think we were quite surprised by that, but you know, you have the vast landscape and you can go walking, you can have your space,” said one young American.For those welcoming the income the sky’s the limit, it seems, but the “no vacancies” signs are already up.
US President Donald Trump has escalated his rhetoric on North Korea, saying his “fire and fury” comment might not be “tough enough.”Trump is issuing a new warning over the country’s development of nuclear weapons.He said North Korea “better get their act together or they are going to be in trouble like few nations have ever been in trouble.”Trump was addressing reporters during his vacation at his New Jersey golf club before a security briefing with top advisers.He continued that if North Korea attacks anyone the US cares about, they should be nervous because “things will happen to them like they never thought possible.”It’s the latest warning since he said earlier this week that North Korea faces “retaliation with fire and fury unlike any the world has seen before.”North Korea has said it may attack Guam in retaliation.Trump also criticized Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell for the failure to “repeal and replace” former president Barack Obama’s health care law.
While all eyes have been on the havoc wreaked by Hurricane Harvey, more than 1,000 people have been killed as a result of devastating floods across India, southern Nepal and northern Bangladesh over the last two months.Some 40 million more have seen their homes, businesses or crops destroyed.Mumbai has been especially hard hit, with water swamping offices, schools and roads and about 60 people killed.According to the Save the Children charity, 18,000 schools have been damaged leaving 1.8 million with no classes. Experts say Indian officials are doing little to reduce the risks.Shreeshan Venkatesh, researcher at Centre for Science and Environment: said: “For a large part, we don’t integrate climate models, climatic events into the way we plan things. “Be it infrastructure or, you know, development, industry, whatever. And if we don’t do this, we are going to face greater damages. We tend to look at it as a disaster rather than something that is an inevitability that we need to plan for.”Venkatesh added: “All the models have been predicting that the intensity and the frequency of these kinds of events are going to increase as we go further into this century. “And, I think we are already beginning to see that now. We are already on the trajectory being described by these projections and these models. So, as we go on further we’re going to see more of this kind of intense simultaneous drought, flood kind of situation.”While there have been some improvements and better protocols for disaster response, scientists are warning that flooding events will only become more frequent, as climate change brings stronger storms and makes rainfall more erratic.
President Donald Trump declared Sunday a national prayer day while he visited Houston, where he interacted with displaced people and helped with relief efforts. He also authorized a increase in the level of federal funding to 90 percent from 75 percent for debris removal and emergency protective measures.The president and first lady Melania Trump will meet communities in Texas and Louisiana as they grapple with the fallout from thousands of flooded homes and at least 45 deaths. “I think most importantly, the governor, the relationship with the governor, the mayor, it’s been fantastic, and with the federal government. And we’re signing a lot of documents now to get money into here. 7.9  billion dollars. We signed it, and hopefully it’ll be a quick process,” said Trump.  Rescuers are faced with critical situations on all fronts. Beyond the flooding the logistics of ferrying in vital supplies is a mammoth task, fires are breaking out, and with many people staying put despite the dangers many lives remain to be saved even if most people have made it to shelters.One such fire in Houston is in a building surrounded by Harvey’s floodwaters on the city’s west side, making access difficult. Firefighters are being hampered by burglar bars on windows around the building, which appears to be a multi-family dwelling.
North Korea said it successfully tested an advanced hydrogen bomb on Sunday, marking a dramatic escalation in the state’s stand-off with the US over its nuclear weapons programme.An announcement on state television claimed that a hydrogen bomb test was a“perfect success” and a “meaningful” step in completing the country’s nuclear weapons programmes.Japan said an earthquake detected near the North’s test site was around 10 times more powerful than previous detonations. South Korea says it is discussing deploying U.S. strategic military assets to the Korean peninsula. Japan has  immediately raised the prospect of further sanctions against the isolated North  including curbs on its oil trade.“I ordered the relevant ministries to gather and analyze information and inform the public appropriately,” said Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  “If North Korea has conducted a nuclear test, we will never tolerate this action.  We strongly protest this action by Pyongyang.” Earlier pictures released by the North Korean state news agency showed Kim Jong Un inspecting a silver-coloured, hourglass-shaped warhead accompanied by nuclear scientists.Tensions on the Korean peninsula have been high since last month when North Korea threatened to launch missiles into the sea near the strategically located U.S. Pacific territory of Guam.
The Voyager programme’s aim was to explore the solar system and the mysteries of space and it’s still doing it.Voyager 1 lifted off on September 5, 1977, 16 days after its slower twin Voyager two.Four decades later and Voyager 1 is almost 21 billion kilometers away from us in interstellar space. It is the farthest human-made object from Earth. The slightly slower Voyager 2 is currently at  the outermost edge of our solar system.Voyager One’s mission has included flybys of Jupiter and Saturn with the spacecraft able to receive routine commands and return data.But both space probe carry a gold-plated audio-visual disc in the event it is ever found by other intelligent life forms. It includes examples of music and culture and its compilers say its a gift from humanity to the cosmos.
A third of EU households are composed of a single person, according to new figures released this month.Out of 220 million homes in the European Union, 33 percent were lived in by just one person. In Sweden that number was over half of households (52 percent), followed by Lithuania, Denmark and Finland. The lowest amount of people living alone was recorded in Poland, Slovakia, Portugal and Malta.A quarter (25 percent) of households consisted of couples without children, while 20 percent were couples with children. Finland had the highest share of couples living together without children at 32 per cent, while Ireland had the largest proportion of couples living with children at 28 per cent. The Eurostat study of data collected in 2016 found that just four percent of European households were made up of single parents living with children. At 9 percent, Denmark had the highest share of households consisting of single parents living with children. The remaining 18 percent were made up were made up of other types of households such as house shares. The largest average household size was recorded in Croatia at 2.8 people, while the smallest was in Sweden with 1.9 people. Almost two thirds of households in Europe were composed of one or two people.   The rise of solo living Solo living has increased considerably in the last 30 years, with people getting married later and divorce becoming more common.The number of young adults moving out of their family homes to live alone has risen rapidly since the 1950s.Eurostat also found that 31.1 percent of the elderly were living alone in the EU in 2014. The solo-living trend is particularly high in Scandinavia, where welfare support protects most citizens with the difficult aspects of living alone.The proportion of Europeans living alone has increased by 3.4 percent in the last decade.The total number of households in the EU rose from 199 million in 2006 to 220 million in 2016, fueled by both population growth and an increase in people living alone.  European countries with the highest proportion of people living alone: 1.	Sweden
Our journalists are working on this story and will update it as soon as more information becomes available.
Pope Francis spent his first full day in Colombia urging President Juan Manuel Santos and other political leaders to avoid vengeance following the country’s decades-long civil war. The overwhelmingly Catholic country is deeply polarized as it prepares to receive former guerrilla fighters into society after signing a long-awaited peace accord in November. Speaking in the courtyard of the presidential palace, Francis congratulated Colombia’s leaders for moving toward peace. “This event gives me the opportunity to express appreciation for the efforts made, throughout the past decades, to end the armed violence and find paths of reconciliation.”Francis later addressed a raucous crowd of young people in Plaza Bolivar. His message to them: teach your parents to look to the future without the burden of hate. After Bogota, Francis will visit Villavicencio, Medellin and Cartagena before leaving for Rome on Sunday night.
Social media footage is beginning to show the extent of the damage caused by category 5 hurricane Irma as it tore through the Atlantic Basin, ravaging parts of the Caribbean with winds of up to 185 mph.With news cameras still struggling to reach the worst hit areas, Twitter and Instagram videos from people in the British Virgin Islands offer the best way to witness the effects of the storm.One video obtained from Twitter shows the hurricane battering a woman’s house in Tortola, where cars, trees, debris from houses and even boats could be seen strewn across the streets.One social media user said the storm felt like a “nuclear attack that went on for five hours”.Footage of a harbour shows boats wrecked by a storm the size of France that passed over an island of less than a hundred square kilometres.Homes and hospitals were flattened in Barbuda, St. Martin and the U.S. Virgin Islands and the hurricane has already claimed at least 23 lives.
Guillermo del Toro’s ‘The Shape of Water’ has won the Golden Lion award for best film at this year’s Venice Film Festival. Accepting the top prize from jury president Annette Bening, the Mexican director described his dark fairy tale as a portrait of hope – “as opposed to now,” he said. The film stars Sally Hawkins and Michael Shannon and tells the story of a mute cleaning lady who falls in love with an aquatic creature. The runner-up Grand Jury prize went to family tragedy “Foxtrot” by Israel’s Samuel Maoz.Xavier Legrand of France won best director for his divorce drama “Custody.” He also took home the Lion of the Future award for a debut film. Charlotte Rampling received the best actress award for her performance in the Italian film “Hannah.”  This film is the first chapter in an Italian-Belgian-French trilogy centring on women.Palestinian Kamel El Basha won best actor prize for his role in “The Insult.”The awards ceremony wraps up a 10-day movie marathon in which 21 international films competed for honours at the world’s oldest film festival.
Chris Froome has become the third man ever to have won the Tour de France and the Tour of Spain in the same season. The British rider picked up not just the red but also the green and white jerseys for topping the points classification and the combined standings.For what it was worth Matteo Trentin won the final stage, a parade into Madrid. but the day belonged to Froome and to Alberto Contador, for whom this was the last ever career race before retiring.
US President Donald Trump addressed the nation after a gunman today killed 58 people and injured 515 in an attack on the Las Vegas Strip.My fellow Americans, we are joined together today in sadness, shock and grief. Last night a gunman opened fire on a large crowd at a country music concert in Las Vegas Nevada. He brutally murdered more than 50 people and wounded hundreds more.It was an act of pure evil. The FBI and the department of homeland security are working with local authorities to assist with the investigation and they will provide updates as to the investigation and how it develops.I want to thank the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and all first responders for their courageous efforts and for helping to save lives of so many. The speed with which they acted is miraculous and prevented further loss of life. To have found the shooter so quickly after the shots were fired is something for which we will always be thankful and grateful, it shows what true professionalism is all about. Hundreds of our fellow citizens are now mourning the sudden loss of a loved one, a parent a child, a brother or sister, we cannot fathom their pain, we cannot imagine their loss, to the families of the victims, we are praying for you and we are here for you and we ask God to help see you through this very dark period.Scripture teaches us the lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. We seek comfort in those words, for we know God lives in the hearts of those who grieve. To the wounded who are now recovering in the hospital, we are praying for your full and speedy recovery and pledge to you our support from this day forward.In memory of fallen, I have directed our great flag be flown at half-staff. I will be visiting Las Vegas on Wednesday to meet with law enforcement, first responders and the families of the victims. In moments of tragedy and horror, America comes together as one and it always has.We call upon the bonds that unite us, of faith of family and our shared values. We call upon the bonds of citizenship and the tie of community and the comfort of our common humanity. Our unity cannot be shattered by evil, our bonds cannot be broken by violence and though we feel such great anger at the senseless murder of our fellow citizens, it is our love that defines us today and always will forever.In times such as these – I know we are searching for some kind of meaning – in the chaos, some kind of light in the darkness, the answers do not come easy. But we can take solace – knowing that even darkest space can be brightened by a single light and even the most terrible despair can be illuminated by a single ray of hope.Melania and I are praying for every American who has been hurt wounded or lost the ones they love so dearly in this terrible, terrible attack. We pray for the entire nation to find unity and peace and we pray for the day when evil is banished and the innocent are safe from hatred and from fear. May God bless the souls of the lives that are lost, may God give us the grace of healing and may God provide the grieving families with the strength to carry on. Thank you, God bless America.
Spain’s King Felipe has condemned the organisers of Catalonia’s disputed independence referendum, calling for unity.In a rare national address, the Spanish monarch accused authorities in the region of “irresponsible conduct” and operating “outside the law”.Describing the situation as extremely serious, Felipe said:“For some time, certain authorities in Catalonia have repeatedly, consciously and deliberately failed to comply with the constitution and its statute of autonomy, which is the law that recognizes and protects historical institutions and self-government. These decisions systematically violated  the norms approved legally and legitimately, demonstrating an inadmissible disloyalty towards the powers of the State. Their irresponsible conduct could even put at risk the economic and social stability of Catalonia and all of Spain.’‘The address followed more protests and strike action across Catalonia. Some 300,000 people took to the streets of Barcelona on Tuesday, to rally against Nearly 900 people were hurt after security forces tried to prevent the ballot by storming polling stations. Madrid had branded the referendum illegal.
The president of Catalonia has heavily criticised Spain’s King Felipe VI vowing to “carry out the will” of the Catalan people following the region’s recent independence referendum. Carles Puigdemont attacked the monarch for deliberately ignoring millions of Catalans and also blasted the government in Madrid for not accepting mediation. In a televised address, Puigdemont said: “The king has defended the speech and policies of Rajoy government, which have been catastrophic for Catalonia and he ignores deliberately the millions of Catalans who do not think the same way. I would like to address your Majesty directly, in the language that he understands, knows, and speaks……With your decision yesterday you have disappointed many Catalan people who appreciated you, who have helped you in the difficult times in your institutional role, people who expected another tone from you and a call for dialogue and agreement.”The Catalan leaders address followed a rare intervention on Tuesday by King Philip VI of Spain who said Catalan leaders had put themselves “outside the law”.Around 900 people were injured in Sunday’s violence-marred vote after Spanish police attempted to halt the ballot.  Watch the Catalan President’s full speech here
Spanish lender Banco Sabadell has decided to transfer its legal base from Catalonia to Alicante, according to a bank spokeswoman.Sabadell had said earlier that its board was holding an extraordinary meeting on Thursday (October 5) to consider the possibility of relocation. The political crisis — triggered by the region’s referendum for independence — has also prompted Spain’s third-biggest lender Caixabank to think about shifting its Catalan base into another Spanish region. That decision has not been taken, and would need to be made at a meeting of shareholders. Spanish newspaper El Pais reported that telecoms operator Eurona is moving from Barcelona to Madrid, as is biotech company Oryzon. Catalonia is a centre of industry and tourism that accounts for one-fifth of Spain’s economy. Seven thousand internationals are based in the region, including major multinationals like Volkswagen and Nestle. If the rift between Madrid and Barcelona is not resolved through dialogue, analysts suggest an external mediator may need to step in.
Man of the dayBelarussian Dzimitry Minkou took gold in style in the under 66 kilograms category on day one of the Tashkent Grand Prix. This was his first world judo tour gold medal and in doing so, he was our man of the day.He defeated Mongolia’s Kherlen Ganbold in the final  of  after a thrilling contest.After taking the lead with a great counter attacking waza ari, he added a second to his tally later in the bout to come out the clear winner.At just 21 years of age it was a great moment for the Junior European champion.Minkou said: “Mongolian judoka are always, always strong. But I have some good techniques and I was smarter than him today and now I have this gold medal.” Woman of the dayOur woman of the day was Israel’s Betina Temelkova, who took on Poland’s Agata Perenc in the final and came up with this fantastic ippon for the win and the under 52 kilograms title.Another youngster at just 20 years old for whom Uzbekistan marked a first world judo tour gold medal. Under 48kg Under 60kg Under 57kgHer form continued and she stood on top of the podium as the Polish anthem played out.
As the world’s fastest-developing refugee emergency intensifies, there are fears of escalating violence in Myanmar.An estimated 2,000 Muslim Rohingya refugees are arriving in Bangladesh daily, joining over half a million others who have made the journey.Cholera is a risk and aid agencies have warned of a malnutrition crisis.“We crossed the border the day before yesterday,” said newly-arrived refugee Mohammad Hossain, explaining that his group was brought to the Balukhali camp in the Cox’s Bazar district by the Bangladeshi army in a truck.“We don’t have any food, we are waiting… we are hungry.”A sense of belonging is hard to find. Fellow refugee Noor Alam, at the Kutupalong camp, says his Rohingya people are being killed in Myanmar where they are treated as illegal Bengali migrants from Bangladesh. “But when we come to Bangladesh, these people are calling us Rohingya…. Where will we go? There is no place for us.”As Bangladesh struggles to cope with the influx, there are fears of an additional flare-up of violence in Myanmar where security forces responded to Rohingya militant attacks with a brutal crackdown. A one-month ceasefire declared by the insurgents to enable the delivery of aid in violence-racked Rakhine State will come to an end at midnight on Monday. Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) insurgents say they are ready to respond to any peace move by the Myanmar government.But when the ARSA announced the ceasefire from Sept. 10, a government spokesman said: “We have no policy to negotiate with terrorists”.
The US yesterday (October 8) said that it was suspending non-immigrant visa services at its diplomatic facilities in Turkey, a move that was echoed shortly after by the Turkish embassy in Washington.It comes after a US mission employee in Istanbul was arrested last week on charges of links to a cleric blamed for last year’s failed coup.A Twitter account run by the US mission in Ankara published a statement saying that recent events had forced the government to take the action while they reassessed “the commitment of the of the Government of Turkey to the security of the US Mission facilities and personnel”.Hours later the Turkish embassy in Washington released a statement which similarly read: “Recent events have forced the Turkish government to reassess the commitment of the government of the United States to the security of Turkish mission facilities and personnel.”Washington says the charges against the consulate worker are baseless and damaging to ties between the NATO allies.Turkish media reports say the employee, is accused of “attempting to overthrow the constitutional order and Turkey’s government,” and alleged to have ties to exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen whom Ankara blames for masterminding the failed coup.In the past 12 months, Turkey has jailed 50,000 people in a far-reaching crackdown that has also included firing tens of thousands of people from government jobs and shutting down more than 100 media outlets.
Capitals across the European Union are looking on with concern at events in Catalonia. In Paris the French government has said it wont recognise an independent Catalonia France’s European Affairs Minister Nathalie Loiseau Minister has said it would mean expulsion from the bloc.“If independence was to be declared the first consequence would be that Catalonia would have to leave the European Union,” Nathalie Loiseau said on French television.In London British Prime Minister Theresa May who has been facing mounting calls to speak out against the scenes of police brutality in Catalonia, stuck steadfastly to the legal position.“I want to see and I am sure all honorable members want to see this situation being resolved peacefully, but we are very clear as a government that the Spanish government has the right to uphold the Spanish constitution, and also that all parties should be operating under the rule of law.”Meanwhile Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon offered a more conciliatory voice raising the possibility of the EU playing a mediation role between Spain and Catalonia:“It’s not for Scotland to decide whether Catalonia becomes independent or not – I think it must be for the people of Catalonia to decide that. Spain says last Sunday’s referendum was illegal. I respect their position, but if that’s the case surely the discussion now must be how do the people of Catalonia legally and legitimately express a view about the future.”
Catalan President Carles Puigdemont has suspended the declaration of independence from Spain to allow for talks with the Spanish government. In a highly-anticipated speech to the regional parliament, he said Catalonia had to “start a dialogue because otherwise it wouldn’t be possible to reach our goal.”“I assume the mandate that Catalonia should become an independent state in the form of a republic… I propose suspending the effects of the declaration of independence to undertake talks to reach an agreed solution.”The speech followed the October 1 referendum, which was deemed illegal by Madrid and suspended by Spain’s Constitutional Court. Around 90 percent of voters cast their ballots in favour of independence, while turnout for the referendum was put at 43 percent.The Spanish government rejected Puigdemont’s statement, which it described as a “tacit” declaration of independence. It earlier warned the separatist leader “not to make any unilateral independence declaration, which would lead to illegality.”Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is due to appear in Spain’s parliament on Wednesday (October 11). He has previously rejected any dialogue with Catalan separatists unless they abandon plans for secession.
Pope Francis prayed for wartime victims on Thursday and warned that the world seemed to be headed into a conflict perhaps bigger than any before.On Catholic All Souls Days commemorating the dead, he paid a solemn visit to the Ardeatine Caves in Rome.There, in March 1944, occupying Nazis shot dead 335 Italian men and boys as a reprisal for the killing of 33 German soldiers by resistance fighters.Dozens of the victims were Jews and Francis and Rome’s chief rabbi, Riccardo Di Segni, each read a prayer. After walking past the tombs in the still dark caves, the pope wrote in the visitors’ book: “This is the fruit of war: hate, death, vendetta. Forgive us Lord”. Earlier he made an emotional anti-war plea at a US military cemetery in the town of Nettuno, south of the Italian capital.Francis said a Mass for several thousand people at the Sicily-Rome American Cemetery which is the final resting place for 7,860 US soldiers who died in the liberation of southern Italy and Rome in 1943 and 1944.He walked slowly and alone amid the rows of low white headstones in the shape of crosses and Stars of David, gently resting a white rose on about a dozen and stopping to pray silently before saying the Mass.“Please Lord, stop. No more wars. No more of these useless massacres,” he said, speaking in hushed tones in an improvised homily.Francis said that remembering the many young people who died in World War Two was even more important “today that the world once more is at war and is preparing to go even more forcefully into war.”He did not elaborate but appeared to be referring to the possibility of nuclear war.
Europe’s silence at the jailing of sacked Catalan ministers has sparked outrage among the pro-independence movement.Expressing their dismay, around 150 people gathered in Brussels on Friday night for a protest in front of the EU institutions.For demonstrators, the separatist politicians placed in pre-trial custody are political prisoners.And they deplore the lack of reaction from the EU and its members states.“It’s shameful,” said one Portuguese protester.“We are at the heart of Europe and there is silence. It shows the weakness of 21st century politicians who prefer to defend the interests of money and the interests of the state, instead of the interests of people.”Ousted Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont remains the legitimate president, according to a Catalan woman we spoke to in the crowd. “He should never have been sacked, and standing in the elections is a way of bringing back what should never have gone,” she said, referring to Puigdemont’s announcement that he is ready to stand in the snap poll called by the Spanish government in Catalonia on December 21.Another Catalan woman reflected, with irony, that recent developments have strengthened resolve.“When all this is over and Catalonia is independent, we will have to give an award to Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy for all he has done for the cause,” she said.The protest was held as some European politicians also slammed the EU for its handling of the crisis.Euronews correspondent in Brussels, Ana Lázaro, said: “Just minutes before the demonstration started, Puigdemont announced that he’d be a candiate. This gave some hope to these protesters, angry at the imprisonments and the silence of Europe.”
What now for Lebanon after the shock resignation of its Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri?He made the announcement on Saturday from Saudi Arabia, a close ally of the leader.Back home, Beirut’s political establishment was stunned.Hariri said he believed there is an assassination plot against him, accusing Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah of sowing strife in the Arab world.A Saudi government minister said Hariri was in Riyadh to ensure his safety.His father, former prime minister Rafik al-Hariri, was killed in a 2005 bomb attack in Beirut.With Lebanon now facing a new political crisis, a female resident of the Lebanese capital said: ‘‘For sure, things will go from bad to worse because Hariri was helping the country greatly. “He was helping prevent wars and terrorism but unfortunately he has resigned. I don’t know why, maybe pressure from Saudi Arabia, or because Hezbollah refuses to lay down its arms.’‘A man in Beirut added: ‘It’s all the same, with or without him.” “The country is not functioning. It is the same thing, over and over. Whatever he has been told to do, he will do. And that is it.’‘As well as bringing down the coalition government, Saad’s resignation thrusts Lebanon into the front line of a regional competition between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran.
By Richard Engel and Aggelos Petropoulos, NBC NewsWilbur Ross, the commerce secretary in the Trump administration, shares business interests with Vladimir Putin’s immediate family, and he failed to clearly disclose those interests when he was being confirmed for his cabinet position.Ross — a billionaire industrialist — retains an interest in a shipping company, Navigator Holdings, that was partially owned by his former investment company. One of Navigator’s most important business relationships is with a Russian energy firm controlled, in turn, by Putin’s son-in-law and other members of the Russian president’s inner circle.Some of the details of Ross’s continuing financial holdings — much of which were not disclosed during his confirmation process — are revealed in a trove of more than 7 million internal documents of Appleby, a Bermuda-based law firm, that was leaked to the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung. The documents consist of emails, presentations and other electronic data. These were then shared with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists — a global network that won the Pulitzer Prize this year for its work on the Panama Papers — and its international media partners. NBC News was given access to some of the leaked documents, which the ICIJ calls the “Paradise Papers.”Overall, the document leak provides a rare insight into the workings of the global offshore financial world, which is used by many of the world’s most powerful companies and government officials to legally avoid paying taxes and to conduct business away from public scrutiny. More than 120 politicians and royal rulers around the world are identified in the leak as having ties to offshore finance.The New York Times reported Sunday that the documents also contain references to offshore interests held by Gary Cohn, Trump’s chief economic adviser, and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. There is no evidence of illegality in their dealings.In Ross’s case, the documents give a far fuller picture of his finances than the filings he submitted to the government on Jan. 15 as part of his confirmation process. On that date, Ross, President-elect Donald Trump’s choice for commerce secretary, submitted a letter to the designated ethics official at the department, explaining steps he was taking to avoid all conflicts of interest.That explanation was vital to his confirmation, because Ross held financial interests in hundreds of companies across dozens of sectors, many of which could be affected by his decisions as commerce secretary. Any one of them could represent a potential conflict of interest, which is why the disclosures, by law, are supposed to be thorough.“The information that he provided on that form is just a start. It is incomplete,” said Kathleen Clark, an expert on government ethics at Washington University in St. Louis. “I have no reason to believe that he violated the law of disclosure, but in order … for the Commerce Department to understand, you’d have to have more information than what is listed on that form.”Ross, through a Commerce Department spokesperson, issued a statement saying that he recuses himself as secretary from any matters regarding transoceanic shipping, and said he works closely with ethics officials in the department “to ensure the highest ethical standards.”The statement said Ross “has been generally supportive of the Administration’s sanctions of Russian” business entities. But the statement did not address the question of whether he informed Congress or the Commerce Department that he was retaining an interest in companies that have close Russian ties.In his submission letter to the government, Ross pledged to cut ties with more than 80 financial entities in which he has interests.Ross’s apparent ethical probity won praise, even before he signed the divestment agreement, from both sides of the political aisle.The documents seen by NBC News, however, along with a careful examination of filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, tell a different story than the one Ross told at his confirmation. Ross divested most of his holdings, but did not reveal to the government the full details of the holdings he kept.In his letter to the ethics official of the Commerce Department, Ross created two lists: those entities and interests he planned to get rid of and those he intended to keep. The second list consisted of nine entities, four of which were Cayman Islands companies represented and managed by the Appleby law firm, which specializes in creating complex offshore holdings for wealthy clients and businesses. The Wilbur Ross Group is one of the firm’s biggest clients, according to the leaked documents, connected to more than 60 offshore holdings.The four holdings on the list of assets that Ross held onto were valued by him on the form as between $2.05 million and $10.1 million. These four, in turn, are linked through ownership chains to two other entities, WLR Recovery Fund IV DSS AIV L.P. and WLR Recovery Fund V DSS AIV L.P., which were listed in Ross’ financial disclosure prior to confirmation, but were not among the assets he declared he would retain. According to an SEC filing, those entities hold 17.5 million shares in Navigator, which constitutes control of nearly one-third of the shipping firm.“You look at all of these names,” Clark said, referring to the financial entities, “and they actually look like a code. And what we actually have to do is find — in a sense — a code that decrypts what these names mean and what these companies actually do.”She said the way the companies were listed was deliberately vague. “I would say this gives the appearance of transparency,” she said, referring to Ross’s disclosure documents. “It’s sort of fake transparency in a sense.”The Office of Government Ethics, which is responsible for executive branch oversight, approved Ross’s arrangement, and it was left almost entirely unchallenged by the Senate.Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., said members of Congress who were part of Ross’ confirmation hearings were under the impression that Ross had divested all of his interests in Navigator. Furthermore, he said, they were unaware of Navigator’s close ties to Russia.“I am astonished and appalled because I feel misled,” said Blumenthal. “Our committee was misled, the American people were misled by the concealment of those companies.” Blumenthal said he will call for the inspector general of the Commerce Department to launch an investigation.And a cursory look at Navigator’s annual reports reveal an apparent conflict of interest. Navigator’s second-largest client is SIBUR, the Russian petrochemical giant. According to Navigator’s 2017 SEC filing, SIBUR was listed among its top five clients, based on total revenue for the previous two years. In 2016, Navigator’s annual reports show SIBUR brought in $23.2 million in revenue and another $28.7 million the following year.The business relationship has been so profitable that in January, around the time Ross was being vetted for his Cabinet position, Navigator held a naming ceremony for two state-of-the-art tankers on long-term leases to SIBUR.One of the owners of SIBUR is Gennady Timchenko, a Russian billionaire on the Treasury Department’s sanctions list. He has been barred from entering the U.S. since 2014 because authorities consider him a Specially Designated National, or SDN, who is considered by Treasury to be a member “of the Russian leadership’s inner circle.”The Treasury Department statement said that Timchenko’s activities in the energy sector “have been directly linked to Putin” and that Putin had investments with a company previously owned by Timchenko, as well as access to the company’s funds.Daniel Fried, who was the State Department sanctions coordinator under President Barack Obama, said the connection to Timchenko’s interests should have raised alarm bells.“I would think that any reputable American businessman, much less a Cabinet-level official, would want to have absolutely no relationship — direct, indirect — … with anybody of the character and reputation of Gennady Timchenko,” Fried said. “I just don’t get it.”Another major SIBUR shareholder is Leonid Mikhelson, who, like Timchenko, has close ties to the Kremlin. One of his companies, Novatek, Russia’s second-largest natural gas producer, was placed on the Treasury’s sanctions list in 2014.Included in the Appleby documents are details of an internal discussion that resulted in the law firm dropping Mikhelson as a client in 2014, over concerns regarding his financial affiliations.“I would say to anybody who asked,” said Fried, “treat SDNs as radioactive. Stay away from them.”A third shareholder of SIBUR – and deputy chairman of the board – is Kirill Shamalov, husband of Vladimir Putin’s daughter, Katerina Tikhonova. After the wedding, Shamalov’s meteoric rise to wealth led him to own as much as 21.3 percent of SIBUR’s stock until April, when he sold off around 17 percent for a reported $2 billion.“It’s a new generation which is currently being prepared and groomed… to inherit whatever power and wealth Putin’s team has accumulated over the past years,” said Vladimir Milov, a former deputy energy minister in Putin’s government who is now working with the opposition.Milov also said companies like SIBUR are often the way sanctioned Kremlin insiders have to keep doing business despite restrictions.The Commerce Department statement said Ross never met Timchenko, Mikhelson, or Shamalov. It said he was not on the board of Navigator in March 2011 when the ships in question were acquired, and said Sibur was not under U.S. sanctions now or in 2012 when the charter agreement with Navigator was signed. The statement said Ross was on the board of Navigator from 2012 to 2014, and that no funds managed by his company ever owned a majority of Navigator’s shares.Fried said he has no doubt of the connections between SIBUR and the Kremlin.“If any senior official of the U.S. government, much less a Cabinet secretary … had any business dealings with sanctioned individuals, direct or indirect,” he said, “I would be appalled.”Richard Painter, the chief White House ethics lawyer during the George W. Bush administration, said there needs to a close examination of whether Ross’ testimony to the Senate violated perjury laws. Painter also said Ross must recuse himself from all Russia-related matters because of the SIBUR connection.“Secretary Ross cannot participate in any discussion or decision-making or recommendation about sanctions imposed on Russia or on Russian nationals when he owns a company that is doing business with Russian nationals who are either under sanctions or who could come under sanctions in any future sanctions regime,” Painter said. “That would be a criminal offense for him to participate in any such matter.” This story was written for NBCnews.com under the title ‘Leaked documents show Wilbur Ross concealed ties to Putin Cronies’. You can read the original here
Egyptian human rights lawyer and opposition leader Khaled Ali  is to stand in next year’s presidential election provided he’s not barred from the contest.Ali told  a news conference he would be running on a socialist programme, aiming to end austerity and fight terrorism but not at the expense of individual rights.“Of course, we are expecting this adminstration to show many forms of supression and tyranny. However, we are still putting ourselves forward to represent the  Egyptian people. Our decision today to announce our campaign does not mean that we will stand idly by and let them.”A Cairo court sentenced Ali in September to three months in jail for public indecency, over an allegedly rude hand gesture.Ali has appealed, denying the charges which he says are politically motivated. If the guilty verdict is upheld he will not be allowed to run, even if he is not jailed.Ali is the first person to announce running against President Abdel Fattah al- Sisi, a former military commander who led the oustering of former President Mohamed Mursi of the Muslim Brotherhood over four years ago.Ali has consistently criticised Sisi for cracking down on individual freedoms. Under Sisi thousands of dissidents have been jailed and the government has shut down independent media.
13,5 million documents revealed how 350 million euros have been hidden in tax havens in the Caribbean and Pacific islands from 1950 to 2016. Earlier this week, we wrote about how popular figures such as Queen Elizabeth II and renowned brands like Nike appeared in the documents. And like the “Panama Papers” we owe the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists for the momentous investigation. Founded in 1997, the consortium is made up of more than 200 journalists based in 70 countries that work together on sizeable investigations. We talked with Venezuela journalist Emilia Díaz Struck who leads ICIJ’s cross-border investigations to understand the organization behind an investigation like the “Paradise Papers”. How much time does it take to study each document? E.D.S: The investigation took a year and we still have stories to unveil. The documents are complex, some are inter-connected and you have to take into account the reporting time spent on the documents. We have to search for information on public databases, other published documents, demands, and interviews with experts, primary sources, and comments from the people or companies mentioned in the document. It’s a long process.  How many journalists with different nationalities worked on the investigation? E.D.S: Journalists from more than 60 countries worked on the investigation.  How did you organize yourselves? In teams? E.D.S: We had a meeting in the headquarters of the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung at the beginning of the project and we kept in contact through a secure messaging application. We used other secure platforms to share documents and visualize results from data that could be useful for the investigation. We shared everything but each journalist chose what to publish based on their national interest. Who financed the investigation? E.D.S: ICIJ is a non-profit organization and our donors can be seen on our website. We don’t accept money from governments and we don’t pay journalists working on the investigation. Each media outlet has to pay their journalist to take part in the project.  How does the ICIJ help the investigative work of a journalist instead of a single national media? E.D.S: There are topics that are way too complex for one journalist to tackle alone. Corruption has become globalized so to have ICIJ’s help allows journalists to better understand complex topics, investigate the connections between countries and it also protects journalists since instead of going at it alone they are backed up by more than 380 journalists from all over the world, which was the case of the “Paradise Papers.”
French president Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte joined Abu Dhabi’s powerful Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum at the official opening of the Louvre Abu Dhabi. Macron walked through the galleries of  the new museum, a decade after the signing of an agreement worth over one billion dollars to share the name and some of the artworks of the world-famous Parisian museum.He said the museum was an important cultural achievement: “What is up for stakes here is very important, because in reality there is nothing more urgent, more important than the promotion of culture, education, beauty and everything which seems to express humanity’s highest level.” The museum sits under a honeycombed dome of eight layers of Arab-style geometric shapes and was designed by French architect Jean Nouvel. It is hoped the Louvre Abu Dhabi will help position the city as a centre of cultural tourism that will draw visitors from around the world.
Business was on the agenda at the 2nd EU-Arab Summit. In a speech at the Athens event, Malta’s Prime Minister emphasised the importance of free trade worldwide. Euronews caught up with him at the conference. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of Malta“I totally refute the idea that Malta has some sort of relaxed rules. Maybe we are a bit too successful for the simple reason that we want and we go to get the business. We are a bit of “go getters”  Symela Touchtidou, euronews“But Malta’s name has been mentioned in Paradise Papers too.” Joseph Muscat“Well it was mentioned in the fact that some companies that are opened in Malta – which are not secret, we do not have secrecy in our jurisdiction, it’s an open register of companies – had investments in other places. We are doing our part, because there is no secrecy and the journalists are saying that we are accused maybe of being too attractive, as may be the accusation to other European jurisdictions, but we are definitely not a tax haven.” Euronews“So there is too much smoke, but no fire? Joseph Muscat“No, I think there is no smoke, actually, let alone the fire.”We asked about the recent murder of investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia, which made the headlines across the globe… Euronews“You have been personally accused, what do you answer?” Joseph Muscat“Is not a publicity issue. It’s an issue of fundamentals. For us is not tolerable that a person, let alone a journalist, is killed in our country… And we are giving any resources to the investigators to make sure that we get to the bottom of it.” Euronews“Any results yet?” Joseph Muscat“The results, if they are any and if there is progress, I would be undermining them if I announced them publicly. So it is up to investigators…”As for the allegations that his family has been involved in the Panama Papers scandal, Joseph Muscat says he has asked for an investigation himself, to shed light into the case. The investigation is still ongoing.  Joseph Muscat“I am the person who would have wanted this to be concluded yesterday, because there are totally unfounded allegations and I said that I am so sure of my situation that I said not only if there is proof but even if there is an indication that what was said is true I would resign on the spot. And I hold my word.”
Four times World Champions Italy are in grave danger of failing to qualify for next summer’s World Cup in Russia after Sweden beat them on Friday in the first leg of their all-important play-off.Italy enjoyed around 65 percent possession but lacked any bite in the final third. The Swedes made them pay with a deflected Jakob Johansson goal in the 61st minute.It’s now all about the second leg in Milan’s San Siro on Monday night. And if Italy don’t win, they will miss out on a World Cup for the first time since 1958.
Turkey has seized the assets of a gold trader whose testimony in a corruption case in New York has implicated President Erdogan in a scheme to help Iran evade US sanctions.Having pleaded guilty himself, Reza Zarrab is cooperating with US prosecutors in the trial of a Turkish bank executive who denies helping Iran launder money.The Turkish government has slammed the case as politically-inspired.Istanbul resident Mehmet Bozkurt seemed to agree."I don't believe America's interventions are based on the law," he said."It is an economic sanction, a way to clamp down on Turkey. They want our economy to collapse. They don't want Turkey to progress."The case has aggravated tension between Turkey and the US, allies in NATO.Fellow Istanbul dweller Cafer Damsa condemned Zarrab - a dual Turkish-Iranian national - saying that what he is doing is detrimental to Turkey."I think this is an American game, a conspiracy... I see him as a spy, a spy for America," he said.US prosecutors charge that the man on trial, Mehmet Hakan Atilla, an executive of Turkey's state-owned Halkbank, helped Iran launder money. Halkbank, like Atilla, has said it is not guilty of the charges.In his testimony, Zarrab also said that Turkish officials had authorised two Turkish banks, Ziraat Bank and VakifBank, to move funds for Iran.Both Ziraat and VakifBank have denied taking part in any such scheme.Zarrab has said that Erdogan, when he was prime minister, and ex-Treasury Minister Ali Babacan signed off on a transaction in the alleged money laundering conspiracy.Despite the denials from the banks mentioned in the case, economic fall-out is feared if US authorities impose fines.With Zarrab's testimony also implicating several former Turkish ministers, some believe the whole episode will be used by the Erdogan government to rally nationalist support.
The Very Reverend Kelvin Holdsworth made the comments in a blog post that he shared on Twitter encouraging people to pray "for the Lord to bless Prince George with a love, when he grows up, of a fine young gentleman".Holdsworth is from the Scottish Episcopal Church, which voted in favour of gay marriage earlier this year, unlike in the Church of England where same-sex marriages are not allowed.Holdsworth has since published a clarification, expressing regret that it had led to a focus on Prince George and saying that it had not been his intention to cause hurt."The post was entirely about the church and its policies around LGBT inclusion," he wrote. "I would urge others, those who agree with me strongly and those who disagree with me strongly to turn our attentions to the actual matter at hand."His comments drew criticism and were labelled "unkind" and "destructive" by one member of the Episcopal Church."To use prayer as a mechanism for wishing this on Prince George is an unkind and destructive thing to do," Gavin Ashenden, a former chaplain to the Queen and a Christian Episcopal Church missionary bishop told the BBC.
It isn't as rare as a solar or lunar eclipse but it is the only time the event has occurred this year.The phenomenon happens when our satellite reaches its closest point to the Earth, which is also known as a "pedigree moon," as opposed to at "apogee" when it’s farthest away.Supermoons occur when the Moon is also a full Moon because of the oval orbit it takes around the Earth.  What's so 'super' about it?  Although it might not be obvious to the naked human eye, the Moon will appear about 7 per cent larger and 15 per cent brighter than usual.The supermoon will be most noticeable at "moonrise" on Sunday and "moonset" on Monday morning.It will be at its brightest at 1 am CET when the satellite is at its highest above the horizon.This is the first in a "supermoon trilogy," according to Nasa, with two other lunar shows due on January 1 and 31.
North Korea’s missile test last week has extended its range to 13,000 kilometres plus, putting it in touching distance of most countries on the planet.South America is the only entire populated continent that falls outside of Pyongyang’s range, while the mainland United States and Europe appear to be easily within reach, according to calculations by the US-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). The Hwasong-15 intercontinental ballistic missile, which Pyongyang claimed to be carrying a “super-large heavy warhead”, was launched on Wednesday (November 29).South Korea’s military said it flew 10 times higher than the International Space Station and twice as high as any satellite in low-earth orbit.According to CSIS’s calculations, the missile has increased Pyongyang’s reach by 3,000 kilometres compared to the Hwasong-14, which was tested in July.Ian Williams, an associate fellow and associate director in the CSIS International Security Program, told Euronews that the two missiles appear to have “definitively” brought Europe into North Korea’s range this year.Kim Jong-un’s KN-08 and KN-14 Hwasong-13 missiles were also estimated to have the capacity to reach Europe as of several years ago, but they were never flight tested.While Williams said everywhere in the range of North Korea’s missiles is technically at risk, he noted that it is important to consider political motivations.“If they can hit Europe, they can hit the United States. We are the more likely target,” he explained, citing the US’ relationship with Japan and South Korea, and its military presence in the region.Williams added that he didn’t expect North Korea to try to significantly extend the range of its missiles beyond that of the Hwasong-15.It is more likely that the regime will focus its efforts on improving the fuel, engine and re-entry technology of its weapons, he said. 
By David ChalliceFollowing the Brexit negotiations (if we can call them negotiations; perhaps that should be ‘capitulations’) we now see the Prime Minister, Theresa May, gear up to pay vast sums of our much-needed cash to the Burghers of Brussels, money we need here at home.This is just so typical, Conservatives talking tough but rolling over like puppies when the crunch comes. No wonder people despair of them, particularly when the main alternative is Jeremy Corbyn and his Socialist cohorts.We’ll now be paying shedloads of cash to the EU for the next 40 years, estimated cost £45 billion, but probably far more. I wonder how Eurosceptic Tory MPs feel about this and will they mount a leadership challenge after Christmas?In fairness, it's not always the Conservatives' fault. Chancellor Angela Merkel could have given real concessions to then-Prime Minister David Cameron when he went to Europe with his list of demands for EU Reform. But when he got back to London and opened his bag all it contained was a mouse that wouldn’t squeak. Had the EU given him some red meat he might have avoided holding a referendum. But they didn’t. Instead we voted Brexit.In Brussels this went down like a lead balloon, but they have only themselves and their complacent arrogance to blame. I suspect that now they secretly wish they had listened more to Cameron rather than blowing him a raspberry and sending him home empty-handed, but it’s too late for that.As for the money side of things, some have wondered whether the Greeks or Italians (after we leave) will then start hammering on the gates of Berlin, asking for money to plug the gap left by the departing Brits. But given recent news, I doubt Germany is too worried. Mrs May seems to have sorted that one out to their complete satisfaction.We might be leaving the EU but will be shovelling cash at them for decades, all because Mrs May lost her bottle and caved in, when she should have been prepared to walk away. They would soon have come running after her. As it is, I am afraid to conclude, they have our Prime Minister wrapped around their little finger. It is not a pretty sight to see her so humiliated. In fact, it is grim. But unless she finds her bottle within the next couple of weeks then we must all pay the price of her failure. David Challice is communications manager for Ukip The views expressed in opinion articles published by Euronews do not represent our editorial position.
In the old city in East Jerusalem people have been giving their reaction to the news that President Trump has recognised Jerusalem as the capital of Irsael.The view expressed is one of disbelief.It is in Jerusalem's eastern sector that Palestinians want the capital of an independent Palestinian state.   One man said: "Palestinians and mostly the people of Jerusalem refuse to recognise the American President's decision that this city is the capital of Israel. "He has no right, it's totally unacceptable."For many here, it is too early to assess the full implications of Trump's decision.Another man said: "Jerusalem is very problematic. It’s important for the Jews, it's important for the Christians, it's important for the Palestinians and the Muslims. "Therefore it's very hard (for this) to just come out of the blue from somebody from outside, from the US, to make a decision about recognising it as a capital of Israel. "It's not his position and it's not his statement to make."
The 23-year-old Canadian, whose exact cause of death is currently unknown, tweeted on December 3 that she did not want to have sex with men who had taken part in gay porn shoots."Whichever (lady) performer is replacing me tomorrow for @EroticaXNews , you’re shooting with a guy who has shot gay porn, just to let cha know," the post read.The porn actress' comment was strongly criticized by a number of people online, with some saying she had singled out the gay performer.One user, who later deleted his Tweet suggested the actress take a cyanide pill."Most girls don’t shoot with guys who have shot gay porn, for safety," she said in a later post, "my body, my rules. Honestly, I’m sorry if I offended anyone."Her death also sparked a 4Chan threads in which users planned to target left-wingers, liberals, so-called “social justice warriors” (SJWs), and LGBT activists.On the imageboard website, where users post anonymously, users posted comments identifying images of Ames they called “wholesome” from which they created memes targeting their political opponents.Real name Mercedes Grabowski, Ames was a Nova Scotia native and had appeared in hundreds of porn films.Many of her peers from the erotic film industry have come out in condemnation of those who criticised her.Brett Rossi, Charlie Sheen's former fiancée, Tweeted: "A beautiful life is GONE because people like to use their 'fan base to bully others because THEiR opinion doesn’t agree with YOURS. RiP to a sweet, kind, soul..."Her husband Kevin Moore expressed his sadness at her death and asked for privacy.If you want help dealing with online abuse visit Connect Safely's "Tips to help stop cyberbullying" page.
While tensions remain high in the Middle East, heated words were exchanged at the UN security council, following Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital.The international community has never recognised Israel's claim, and several members roundly condemned the move."There is a serious risk today that we may see a chain of unilateral actions which can only push us further away from achieving our shared goal of peace. It will be critical in the coming days that leaders demonstrate their wisdom and make all efforts to reduce the rhetoric, prevent incitement and rein in radical elements," said UN Middle East Envoy, Nickolay Mladenov.The US defiantly defended its new policy stance, saying that peace was within reach."Over many years the United Nations has outrageously been of the world's foremost centers of hostility towards Israel. The UN has done much more damage to the prospects for Middle East peace than to advance them.... the United States has credibility with both sides. Israel will never be, and should never be, bullied into an agreement by the United Nations or by any collection of countries that have proven their disregard for Israel's security," U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley.While Israel hailed the decision as a 'milestone for Israel and peace', the Palestinian permanent observer  Riyad Mansour called for Trump's actions to be rescinded, saying:"We are satisfied that there are 14 countries in the Security Council that are defending international law, defending Security Council resolutions as it relates to Jerusalem and they are rejecting the unilateral, illegal decisions by President Trump two days ago."The ambassadors of France, Germany, Italy, Sweden and the U.K. issued a joint statement after the meeting reiterating their opposition to Trump’s move.
There was anger in Paris, on the eve of the Israeli Prime Minister’s arrival. Hundreds of pro-Palestinian activists rallied against Benjamin Netanyahu’s visit, which comes days after Washington’s move to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. French President Emmanuel Macron labelled his US counterpart Donald Trump's decision 'regrettable', but it didn't seem to be enough for the protesters, some of whom carried photographs of Macron with the word 'accomplice' stamped across them. Tensions flared further with the arrival of a counter-rally, waving US and Israeli flags.France's Foreign Minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian also spoke out against Trump's move. He and his counterparts in the EU will hold talks with Netanyahu in Brussels on Monday (December 11). 
Fears of a widespread salmonella outbreak have caused a major French diary producer to recall several baby formula milk and food products.Baby milk produced by Lactalis is marketed globally under a host of brand names in countries as far apart as China, Britain and Sudan.The recall follows 20 cases of salmonella infection of infants in France in early December prompting a limited recall of 12 Lactalis products. A further five cases of infection with the 'salmonella agona' bacteria. have since been reportedA company spokesman said nearly 7,000 tonnes of production may have been contaminated, but the company is unable to say currently how much remains on the market, has been consumed or is in stock.None of the 26 victims in France has died.The French consumer protection agency, the DGCCRF , has criticised the company, saying Lactalis did not do enough to prevent the risk of infection.Salmonella is dangerous for the very young and elderly because of the risk of dehydration.
