President Trump nominated federal appellate judge Neil Gorsuch as his Supreme Court nominee. If confirmed, it would tilt the balance of the court back in conservatives' favor.Judge Gorsuch was a very traditional pick from President Trump, one any Republican president could have made. He teased reality show, but it was standard fare. That stood out in what's been a chaotic start to this presidency. Liberals are demanding resistance, but Gorsuch will be tough to stop — he has sterling legal credentials, been confirmed once by the Senate and, above all, Democrats have little leverage. They might want a pound of flesh — an eye for a Garland eye — but to what end? Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell could blow up the filibuster and get anyone through.I have made my decision on who I will nominate for The United States Supreme Court. It will be announced live on Tuesday at 8:00 P.M. (W.H.)SCOTUS justice must stand up to a Pres willing to bend the Constitution. Serious doubts on Judge Gorsuch’s ability to meet this standard.Judge Gorsuch must explain his hostility to women's rights, support of corporations over workers and opposition to campaign finance reform.Gorsuch is excellent choice. Like Scalia in many ways but with a lighter touch. Also less deferential to administrative agencies. Well done.Absent a shock revelation, Gorsuch is sure to be confirmed. Republicans already have the votes and he will get some Democratic support too.Hope you like my nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch for the United States Supreme Court. He is a good and brilliant man, respected by all.
Protesters rally against the Dakota Access Pipeline behind the 128th Rose Parade in Pasadena, Calif., on Jan. 2, 2017.Updated at 12:15 p.m. ET on Feb. 1If it's granted, the easement under review would allow the pipeline to cross under a federally controlled section of the Missouri River just north of the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in North Dakota.On Wednesday, the Department of the Army said in a statement that it had been directed to expedite its review of the easement request, but that "these initial steps do not mean the easement has been approved.""The Assistant Secretary for the Army Civil Works will make a decision on the pipeline once a full review and analysis is completed in accordance with the directive," according the Army statement.The project, which is slated to carry North Dakota crude to Midwestern refineries, has drawn protesters who say oil might leak from the structure and contaminate water supplies, and that construction is disturbing lands sacred to the Sioux tribe.Hoeven said he had spoken with both acting Secretary of the Army Robert Speer and Vice President Pence about the easement:"This will enable the company to complete the project, which can and will be built with the necessary safety features to protect the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and others downstream."Building new energy infrastructure with the latest safeguards and technology is the safest and most environmentally sound way to move energy from where it is produced to where people need it."Hoeven also said he is working to get additional funds for law enforcement at the site."[The announcement] is ... not a formal issuance of the easement—it is notification that the easement is imminent. ..."The Army Corps lacks statutory authority to simply stop the [environmental study] and issue the easement. The Corps must review the Presidential Memorandum, notify Congress, and actually grant the easement. We have not received formal notice that the [study] has been suspended or withdrawn."Amy Sisk of Prairie Public Broadcasting contributed to this report.
Imagine that one day you're kicked off Facebook. It happens, regularly. You may not know why exactly. It looks like an algorithm may have done it — and now you need to reach a human being at the company to get back on. NPR has interviewed more than two dozen users in that situation — all people who rely on Facebook to do their work, make their living.Their stories, which we'll share in a separate article, made us wonder: If you needed to reach Facebook, what would you do?Many people would go online and search for "Facebook customer service."Until recently, a phone number at the top of Google search for "Facebook customer service" led callers to a scam, NPR has found.The first time NPR called, someone picked up and then put the phone down — maybe on a table. You could hear mumbling in the room. It felt suspicious.A call center operator named "Steven" — who, according to Pindrop analysis, is based in India — says: "Thanks for calling Facebook." He is pretending to be a Facebook employee.The Pindrop researcher plays along and explains he is locked out of his Facebook account. He needs help getting reactivated."Steven" gives him very unusual advice: Go to a Wal-Mart or a Target."Just walk up over there and tell them to provide you an iTunes card. OK? And on the backside of that iTunes card there would be a 16-digit security code."Maybe you see where this is going.Steven continues: "You need to call us back on this same number and provide me that 16-digit security code so that I can activate that access and we'll be giving you the password for your new — for your old account."That toll-free "Facebook" line was not just on Google. That number and others have been circulating on Facebook itself, on pages where users are asking for help, for at least a year. In one instance, a user asked whether the number was valid and a member of the company's Help Team responded: "There isn't a number to contact Facebook. ... It sounds like the email or notification you saw is likely a scam." It's unclear whether the Help Team member reported it to her superiors to investigate.What Weintraub finds astonishing is that a term as basic as "Facebook customer service" slipped through the cracks."It's not like somebody's searching for 'Hey, what color are Mark Zuckerberg's socks?' It's not like it's something that's off the beaten path," Weintraub says. "So one would think that a company as large as Facebook would be monitoring [the] search engine results page for a major query surrounding their services."According to Google data, "Facebook customer service" gets searched, on average, about 27,000 times a month in the U.S.Weintraub says that is sizable, that Facebook should have known about it "almost the first minute" it came up, and that the company should have guarded its users. "I'd be so scared," he says. "These are people who are looking for help with the product and they're getting scammed. OMG."NPR informed Facebook and Google about the scam line.Facebook said that it has been investigating the group associated with this toll-free number for some time; that this group is targeting many platforms; and that it's up to Google to explain why it displays certain search results.A Google spokesperson said in a statement that the company has taken steps to remove the fraudulent number.Neither company explained how the prominent search result went unnoticed.
Judge Neil Gorsuch of the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals   makes a point while delivering prepared remarks before a group of attorneys last Friday at a luncheon in a legal firm in lower downtown Denver.The selection fulfills an early campaign promise by Trump to nominate a solidly conservative judge with a record of strictly interpreting the U.S. Constitution. Gorsuch, 49, sailed through an earlier confirmation process for a spot on the federal appeals court in Denver.Only weeks after his nomination in 2006, the Senate confirmed him by voice vote. The American Bar Association rated him as "unanimously well qualified" at the time.Gorsuch has a sterling legal pedigree. He clerked for two Supreme Court justices, Byron White and Anthony Kennedy. He also served as a clerk on the second most important appeals court in the country, in Washington D.C., for conservative Judge David Sentelle.Like Justice Antonin Scalia, whom he is in line to replace, Gorsuch has cultivated a reputation as a memorable and clear author of legal opinions. He also considers himself to be an originalist. Lawyers who practice before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, where Gorsuch currently works, said he is a popular and approachable judge.SCOTUSblog, the leading Supreme Court blog, described some of Gorsuch's parallels to Scalia as "eerie.""Like any human enterprise, the law's crooked timber occasionally produces the opposite of the intended effect," he said. "We turn to the law earnestly to promote a worthy idea and wind up with a host of unwelcome side effects that do more harm than good. ... We depend upon the rule of law to guarantee freedom, but we have to give up freedom to live under the law's rules."
Updated at 10:15 p.m. ETPresident Trump has nominated conservative favorite Judge Neil Gorsuch to succeed the late Justice Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court."Judge Gorsuch has a superb intellect, an unparalleled legal education, and a commitment to interpreting the Constitution according to its text. He will make an incredible justice as soon as the Senate confirms him," Trump said in announcing his pick."Gorsuch has a sterling legal pedigree. He clerked for two Supreme Court justices, Byron White and Anthony Kennedy. He also served as a clerk on the second most important appeals court in the country, in Washington D.C., for conservative Judge David Sentelle."Like Justice Antonin Scalia, whom he is in line to replace, Gorsuch has cultivated a reputation as a memorable and clear author of legal opinions. He also considers himself to be an originalist. Lawyers who practice before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, where Gorsuch currently works, said he is a popular and approachable judge."Gorsuch has often drawn parallels to Scalia, with SCOTUSblog calling their similarities "eerie." In accepting Trump's nomination, Gorsuch praised the late justice as a "lion of the law" who was cherished by his colleagues for his "wisdom and his humor."Like other justices on the court, Gorsuch has an Ivy League background. The Colorado native attended Columbia University, graduated from Harvard Law School and received his doctorate from Oxford University as a Marshall scholar. But he has blue-collar roots as well, including once working as a clerk at a Howard Johnson motel. He's an avid outdoorsman and lives on a ranch outside Boulder, Colo., with two horses and a cat.Gorsuch was nominated by President George W. Bush in 2006 to his current position, where he was confirmed by voice vote without objection. If confirmed for the high court, Gorsuch would be the first clerk in history to share the bench with the justice (Kennedy) he clerked for.The choice of Gorsuch drew immediate praise from GOP lawmakers, many of whom were in attendance at the East Room announcement, and conservative groups alike.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell praised Gorsuch as someone with "an impressive background and a long record of faithfully applying the law and the Constitution." House Speaker Paul Ryan called him a "phenomenal nominee" whose "belief in judicial restraint will serve the court — and the country — very well."Gorsuch is, in fact, the second nominee to succeed Scalia. After the 79-year-old justice died suddenly last February, then-President Barack Obama nominated Merrick Garland, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, to take his place. But Senate Republicans refused to take up Garland's nomination, arguing instead that the next president should be allowed to chose the next justice.Now, Senate Democrats are weighing whether they should block Trump's nominee. Gorsuch has to get 60 votes to avoid a filibuster and move forward to a full Senate vote, so the White House needs eight Democrats to back him.Sen. Jeff Merkley has already said he will filibuster the pick. In a statement after Gorsuch was announced, the Oregon Democrat called his nomination "a stolen seat" and maintained that the centrist Garland should not have been kept in limbo for months.Sen. Patrick Leahy, a senior member of the Senate Judiciary Committee who previously served as ranking member, echoed those sentiments. The Vermont Democrat blasted Senate Republicans for how they had treated Garland, slamming Trump for "outsourc[ing] this process to far-right interest groups. This is no way to treat a co-equal branch of government, or to protect the independence of our Federal judiciary."Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer underscored the precedent of the 60-vote threshold in his statement, saying that Gorsuch must "prove himself to be within the legal mainstream and, in this new era, willing to vigorously defend the Constitution from abuses of the Executive branch and protect the constitutionally enshrined rights of all Americans." However, the New York Democrat said that he had "very serious doubts about Judge Gorsuch's ability to meet this standard."Channeling progressive frustration, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called Gorsuch out of the mainstream and a hostile pick in a CNN town hall Tuesday evening. Pelosi said in a statement that Gorsuch was "hostile to women's rights" and called for "the toughest scrutiny" of him before any vote to put him on the court. But she stopped short of calling on Senate Democrats to filibuster Gorsuch's nomination.Picking the next Supreme Court justice was a major factor for many of the president's voters this past November. According to exit polls, Trump won 56 percent of the vote from those who said the nomination to the high court was their most important factor when making their choice.Social conservatives, many of whom were initially skeptical of Trump's anti-abortion bona fides, were ecstatic over the choice of Gorsuch. Calling Gorsuch "a distinguished jurist with a strong record of protecting life and religious liberty," Susan B. Anthony List President Marjorie Dannenfelser said Trump "has kept his promise to nominate only pro-life judges to the Supreme Court." Family Research Council President Tony Perkins said that "Judge Gorsuch's record over the last 14 years, especially on religious liberty, gives Americans every reason to believe he will make a fine Supreme Court justice."The White House chose a prime-time announcement instead of the usual nomination during the day. And there were reports throughout the day that the two finalists for the seat — Gorsuch and Thomas Hardiman, another federal appeals court judge — might both be at the White House.But in the end, it was only Gorsuch. However, Trump kept the suspense building as long as he could, walking out alone to make his announcement. Soon, he invited Gorsuch and his wife to the front."Was that a surprise — was it?" Trump said, smiling.Domenico Montanaro and Scott Horsley contributed to this report.
That's according to new research on frog saliva, which shows that the sticky stuff is tailor-made to grab bugs.It helps to explain how frogs can snatch flies out of the air at incredible speeds, and hang on to them using only their tongues.Researchers had suspected a frog's saliva might be an important tool for hunting.A leopard frog catches a cricket using its sticky tongue.They found that when the frog's tongue hits the fly, the saliva actually changes properties in order to trap the bug on its tongue. Frog saliva is normally thick like honey. But when the frog hits an insect with its tongue, the force causes the thick saliva to liquefy. The watery saliva spreads all over the nooks and crannies of the insect's body, trapping the helpless bug. The saliva then becomes thick again, and the frog can pull it the insect into its mouth.A Tiger-leg Monkey Frog frog uses its eyeballs to swallow, pushing the trapped insect off the tongue.A common example is wall paint. Paint in the can is fairly thick, but when apply it to a wall with a paint brush, it becomes thinner. The force of the brush makes the paint liquefy and spread evenly across the wall. Remove the brush, and the paint becomes sticky again, staying in place on the wall.So how does the frog get the insect off of its super-sticky tongue once it's in the mouth? With their eyeballs, of course."They actually bring their eyeballs into their mouth cavity and push down on the insect against the tongue," Noel says. The force from the eyeballs liquefies the saliva, releasing the bug from the tongue.It's not all about the saliva, the frog's tongue also plays a big role. "The frog tongue is like a bungee cord, in that the tongue as it is pulling back actually stretches and deforms," Noel says. This stretching helps to keep the tongue in contact with the bug. The tongue is also extremely soft – 10 times softer than a human tongue. That softness helps keep the saliva thick as the bug returns to the frog's mouth.The authors suggest that frog tongues could one day help engineers design reversible soft adhesives that could work at high speeds. "Maybe even on a conveyor belt in a manufacturing plant, if you had to pick up very delicate components very quickly," says Noel.The authors received help from the The Amphibian Foundation, a group that brings together top researchers in the field of amphibian biology, conservation, and applied science to address the causes of global amphibian declines.
Nick Ayers (from left), adviser to the vice president; Brad Parscale, President Trump's digital and data director; David Bossie, deputy campaign manager; and Katrina Pierson, who served on the campaign's communications team.President Trump may be breaking many of the rules in Washington, but the tradition of secret-money politics shows no sign of ending anytime soon."Some of the same like-minded individuals who put their energy into getting Mr. Trump elected are now going to be part of a grass-roots group to go out there and help with the agenda, help the White House to be successful," said Brad Parscale, Trump's digital and data director.Also involved are Katrina Pierson, who served on the campaign's communications team, and deputy campaign manager David Bossie, who also headed the conservative advocacy group Citizens United, as well as Nick Ayers and Marty Obst, advisers to Vice President Pence.The group appears to be a 501(c)(4) "social welfare" organization. Federal law allows such groups to raise money in unlimited amounts without revealing the donors' identities. They're allowed to participate in politics, but it cannot be their primary purpose. In recent campaigns, 501(c)(4)s have become a major conduit for undisclosed money."And they're doing it, and everyone who is giving understands the wink and the nod, that if you want the person in power to know that they're playing on your team, to get the gratitude and support that president's ambitious policy goals, you're going to give to this entity," she adds."When it's designed and structured so that it can take unlimited-size contributions from secretive donors, it's a method for those people to channel money into [the president's effectively] permanent campaign, with an expectation of reciprocal benefits. But the public will never know about it and moreover, if we did know about it there's not much we can do about it," Weissman says.
Malaria parasites, spread by a mosquito's bite, have started to adapt so the go-to drugs won't knock them out.If you get malaria somewhere in the tropics and end up in a British hospital, the treatment is pretty simple.Or at least it used to be.Late in 2015, health officials in Britain for the first time came across a cluster of malaria cases that refused to succumb to Artemether-lumefantrine. The patients were travelers who had returned from three different African countries — Angola, Liberia and Uganda. After being treated with Artemether-lumefantrine, each patient appeared to be cured.Then the parasitic infections came racing back."Because our patients were living in a country where we don't have malaria, we knew it had to be the same parasites that weren't adequately treated the first time around," says Sutherland. That's not the case in Africa, where people live with malaria on a day-to-day basis. So if they get sick again, he says, "it's difficult to determine if maybe they just got another mosquito bite."These cases in the U.K. show that strains of malaria are emerging in Africa that can't be cured with the most common drugs to treat the disease. But Sutherland urges caution: "It would be unwise for us to sit here in Europe and say, oh, we've got four cases so Africa's got a problem. But the public health impact in Africa could be enormous. It's a clear message that we need to now put in place the right kind of studies in Africa [to track resistance]."Malaria remains one of the most troublesome diseases in the developing world. According to the World Health Organization there were more than 200 million cases in 2015 and roughly 430,000 deaths from the disease.The good news is that efforts against malaria, including insecticide-treated bed nets and artemisinin-based treatments, have cut the rates of malaria transmission particularly in Africa significantly over the last 15 years with the total number of cases in the world dropping by a third and malaria deaths being cut in half.
Meg Ivatti (right), a manager at HealthSource RI, the state's insurance exchange, works with Dianiri Paulino to help a caller sign up for coverage in 2014.Tuesday is the last day of open enrollment for health coverage for 2017 under the Affordable Care Act. And while Republicans in Congress are working to repeal the law, it's not at all clear what might replace it.During the campaign, President Trump suggested a nationwide insurance market that would allow insurance plans to be sold across state lines.On the roadblocks of allowing out-of-state health insurance optionsIt's very hard to have interstate insurance. It means that a state has to accept the rules of another regulator. That means if a Rhode Island insurer was licensed in Massachusetts, we have to say that whatever they do in Massachusetts is good for us here in Rhode Island. It also requires significant work to coordinate rules and regulations. Insurance regulators are reluctant to take on this task.Let's say Rhode Island didn't allow limited benefit health plans. ... If we were to allow insurance to come in from a state that allowed those plans, and they sold them in Rhode Island, you'd have insurers offering policies that were against the laws and policies set forth by Rhode Island legislature. ... And if insurers are going to sell across state lines, you'll see more variation among states which makes it harder to coordinate and for insurers to operate across state lines.On how health insurance compares to other lines of insuranceIt's not [comparable]. There's a big difference between a hospital and an auto body guy repairing your car. We have a lot more auto body guys than we have hospitals. We don't compel auto body makers to take care of our car if we can't pay for it, but we compel hospitals to treat people if they can't afford to pay for it. We look at health care very differently from auto insurance.On why out-of-state health insurance can't compete with localIn Rhode Island we have one hospital system that has 80 percent of births in the state. [Insurers] need that in [their] network to be competitive. And I can tell you that if a national insurer walked into that hospital, and said, 'Will you contract with us?' the hospital would have no reason to give the insurer any discount compared to local established health plans have already. That national insurer can't offer a competitive product.
A Socorro dove perches at the Africam Safari Zoo in Puebla, Mexico. Scientists are planning to bring the dove species back to Socorro Island, the dove's ancestral home.In the coming year, scientists are hoping to reintroduce the Socorro dove to Socorro Island, a place where the bird has died out.Socorro, the ancestral home of the dove, is part of an island group off the west coast of Mexico nicknamed the Mexican Galapagos.In the 1920s, the California Academy of Sciences noticed island birds and animals were disappearing fast. So the academy sent an expedition to Socorro with instructions to bring back live doves.Juan Martinez, a scientist with Mexico's Institute of Ecology, hiked the same terrain as the researchers a century ago. He said he plans to slowly reintroduce the doves to the wild."We're going to camp in that area, where you see the green and the red," Martinez said. "In that area is a heavier forest and is where they found the Socorro doves. That's why all this exercise is helping us find the locations. The best place to bring them back is a similar place where they found them."The original expedition brought back 17 doves and sent them to zoos and aviaries across the United States and Europe. The plan was to breed them in captivity.But although they survived at the zoos, they died off on the island."Here on Socorro you have introduced sheep, introduced cats and introduced mice," Martinez said.Cats and mice preyed on the birds and their eggs. But the biggest problem, Martinez said as he pointed to the hillside, was the sheep."That's probably the highest point where they completely removed vegetation," Martinez said.The sheep chewed and trampled their way through the forest, destroying the Socorro dove's home."And at the end, all of that material goes to the sea and it is tons and tons of soil that were lost by the impact of sheep," Martinez said.Martinez, along with his team, has spent the past several years aggressively removing sheep and replanting native trees.There's also ongoing work to rid the island of cats and mice. But even with all that work, Martinez said reintroductions are full of uncertainty.Michelle Reynolds, a biologist for the U.S. Geological Survey and a reintroduction specialist, said to expect surprises when returning the doves to Socorro.She said she knows of Hawaiian ducks that were moved from one island to another, only to take off over the open ocean and never be seen again."There could be a new threat, one that didn't exist when the species used to live there," Reynolds said.For example, she said, avian diseases, such as West Nile, are more prevalent now.It's also unknown how captivity might have changed the birds. The doves might have lost traits needed to live in the wild."You might lose some aggression; you might lose vigilance," Reynolds said. "There's lots of characteristics that can change over many, many generations in captivity."Martinez said this might seem like a lot of work for one small species on a tiny island. But other birds on this island are teetering on extinction, he said.He and other scientists believe the effort to return the doves to Socorro will also help the other endangered species."It's not restoration by restoring or reintroducing one species," Martinez said. "At the end what you want is to restore the ecological interactions that interplay on the island. And once you do that, the island will go back to its original course."This reintroduction is a process scientists a century ago might never have imagined.Martinez might not even see the end of it. It could be decades before the doves can flourish on their own.It's a long, difficult and costly effort. But Martinez said he believes it's ultimately worth giving the doves — and the island — another chance.
Carryn Owens, the widow of Navy SEAL William "Ryan" Owens, fought back tears as President Trump addressed her during his speech to a joint session of Congress Tuesday.Barely a month after the death of her husband in a much-criticized U.S. anti-terrorist raid in Yemen, Carryn Owens was one of President Trump's guests in the House gallery for his address to Congress.Navy SEAL William "Ryan" Owens died in the first such operation approved by the new president.She wept as Trump spoke directly to her:"We are blessed to be joined tonight by Carryn Owens, the widow of U.S. Navy Special Operator, Senior Chief William "Ryan" Owens. Ryan died as he lived: a warrior, and a hero — battling against terrorism and securing our nation."I just spoke to our great Gen. Mattis, just now, who reconfirmed that, and I quote, 'Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemies.' Ryan's legacy is etched into eternity. Thank you."The chamber rose in a standing ovation that lasted more than a minute and a half. As it came to an end the president added: "Ryan is looking down right now, you know that, and he's very happy, because I think he just broke a record," referring to the applause.Ryan Owens' father, Bill Owens, is calling for an investigation into the raid. The Pentagon says one is normally conducted when an operation results in loss of life.Owens, who acknowledged he did not vote for Trump, said he wants the president to stop "hiding behind [his] son's death."In an interview with Fox News Tuesday morning, Trump appeared to deny responsibility for the raid."This was something that was, you know, just — they wanted to do," Trump said, referring to the military. "And they came to see me and they explained what they wanted to do, the generals, who are very respected.""And they lost Ryan," the president continued.
Following President Trump's address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night, the Democratic Party gave its response. Party leaders chose former Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear to do the honors this year.Beshear, who left office in 2015, has a record of expanding access to affordable health care, lowering his state's uninsured rate from more than 20 percent to 7.5 percent. NPR journalists have annotated his remarks.
He touted his executive actions, called again for the repeal and replacement of Obamacare and reiterated his position on immigration and national security.
President Trump pushed the reset button after a rocky first month in office, delivering an on-message joint address to Congress that outlined his vision for America."I am here tonight to deliver a message of unity and strength, and it is a message deeply delivered from my heart," Trump said at the outset, declaring that "the torch of truth, liberty and justice ... is now in our hands. And we will use it to light up the world."It was a remarkably different tone than the president's usual speeches, including his inaugural address when he promised to stop "American carnage" and painted a gloomy view of the country. There were no campaign-like riffs, no boasting of his electoral victory, no bashing of the media or taunts or jeers at his opponents."The time for trivial fights is behind us," Trump declared at the end of his speech — a somewhat ironic statement given his proclivity for picking Twitter fights and zeroing in on petty things like disputes over the size of his inauguration crowd.But throughout the more than hourlong address, Trump heeded that call, as he himself implored the country to "embrace this renewal of the American spirit.""From now on, America will be empowered by our aspirations, not burdened by our fears — inspired by the future, not bound by the failures of the past — and guided by our vision, not blinded by our doubts," the president ended by saying.Trump began the speech by touting the accomplishments he has already checked off in office — including withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, ordering construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines he argued would create jobs, and nominating conservative Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.But on what he would still do in office, Trump was often short on specifics and instead spoke in his usual broad generalities.On national security, the president said he had directed the Pentagon to "develop a plan to demolish and destroy ISIS," while promising to "work with our allies, including our friends and allies in the Muslim world, to extinguish this vile enemy from our planet."Trump redoubled on Republicans' longtime campaign promise to repeal and replace Obamacare, even as the GOP has had difficulty coalescing around one replacement."Tonight, I am also calling on this Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with reforms that expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and at the same time, provide better health care," the president said.Trump said he still wants to ensure that Americans with pre-existing conditions are covered and also said he supports letting people purchase plans "through the use of tax credits and expanded health savings accounts" and "to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across state lines."There were also some head fakes from the administration. While Trump told news anchors in a lunch meeting earlier Tuesday he was open to bipartisan immigration overhaul, that never made it into his speech.Instead, Trump continued to hew to hard-line rhetoric on immigration, recognizing families he invited to the speech who had lost loved ones to crimes committed by unauthorized immigrants. He announced he had ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create a new office called "VOICE" — Victims Of Immigration Crime Engagement — that would provide "a voice to those who have been ignored by our media, and silenced by special interests."He still stood behind his call for "the construction of a great wall along our Southern border" to curb unauthorized immigrants, though he omitted a line from his prepared remarks that promised it would start ahead of schedule.Trump didn't offer a specific defense of his controversial travel ban that affected seven Muslim-majority countries and was later halted by a federal court. The administration is expected to issue a new executive order this week.But he did offer a broader, more muted than usual, pushback to the order's critics, saying that "it is not compassionate, but reckless, to allow uncontrolled entry from places where proper vetting cannot occur. Those given the high honor of admission to the United States should support this country and love its people and its values."Some of the president's bullet points were apostasies of traditional GOP orthodoxy. His call for more than $1 trillion in new infrastructure spending "financed through both public and private capital" could belie fiscal discipline the GOP has preached for years, though it is an area where he could find bipartisan support from Democrats.He also called for more military spending, as he had outlined in his budget proposal this week, and reiterated his call to "make child care accessible and affordable" and "to help ensure new parents have paid family leave."Trump still did have some of his usual bombast, though it was far more muted. Instead of boasting about how the political pundits had underestimated him and crowing about his electoral win, the president instead sought to harness the movement that had surprisingly thrust him into office."The rebellion started as a quiet protest, spoken by families of all colors and creeds — families who just wanted a fair shot for their children, and a fair hearing for their concerns," Trump said. "But then the quiet voices became a loud chorus — as thousands of citizens now spoke out together, from cities small and large, all across our country."Finally, the chorus became an earthquake — and the people turned out by the tens of millions, and they were all united by one very simple, but crucial demand, that America must put its own citizens first — because only then, can we truly Make America Great Again," the president said, echoing his campaign slogan and striking familiar populist chords.But Trump looked to silence any criticism by putting the spotlight solely on the deeply emotional widow. Owens received a sustained standing ovation from across the chamber, her eyes looking toward the sky and arms stretched upward as tears rolled across her grief-stricken face.Trump praised her late husband as someone who "died as he lived: a warrior, and a hero" and said that Defense Secretary James Mattis had assured him that "Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemies."Ryan's legacy is etched into eternity," the president said.It was that action that had even some of Trump's fiercest critics praising him after the speech, showing why it could be one of the most enduring moments from the critical address."He became president of the United States in that moment. Period," Jones added.But other than that bipartisan moment, there were few instances where legislators in the chamber seemed anything other than deeply divided. Democrats sat stoically as Republicans repeatedly rose to their feet to applaud, with the occasional red-state Democratic senator, like North Dakota's Heidi Heitkamp or West Virginia's Joe Manchin (both up for re-election in 2018) joining them.Their choice to give the response to Trump's speech was former Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear. While the 72-year-old who doesn't currently hold elective office isn't exactly a fresh face for the party, he did check off some of the boxes Democrats had last cycle with winning over rural voters.Perhaps most important, Beshear was able to speak to the issue that's generating the most enthusiasm among the party's grass roots right now — saving Obamacare. As governor of the conservative Bluegrass State for two terms, Beshear oversaw the state's Medicaid expansion and widely praised health care exchange, which resulted in a drastic drop in the state's uninsured."Does the Affordable Care Act need some repairs? Sure, it does," Beshear said, speaking from a diner in Lexington. "But so far, every Republican idea to 'replace' the Affordable Care Act would reduce the number of Americans covered, despite your promises to the contrary.""Mr. President, folks here in Kentucky expect you to keep your word," Beshear continued. "Because this isn't a game. It's life and death for people."
Updated at 11:43 p.m. ETPresident Trump took a hard-line stance on illegal immigration during his first address to a joint session of Congress Tuesday, restating his promise to build a wall along the Southern border and speaking of the government's ongoing deportation efforts, saying that "as we speak, we are removing gang members, drug dealers, and criminals who threaten our communities."Notably absent from the president's remarks was any indication that he would support a path to legalization for the millions of immigrants living in the U.S. illegally, despite reports that he had signaled an openness to a legalization plan during a meeting with reporters earlier Tuesday.Instead, during his address, the president sought to cast illegal immigration as a threat to public safety. He highlighted the stories of two California police officers and a teenager said to have been killed by immigrants living in the U.S. illegally as the victims' relatives — invited by the president — looked on from the audience. To a mix of cheers and jeers, Trump spoke of a new government office to help such families.But immigrants also played a major role in the Democratic response to the president's speech. Astrid Silva, a 28-year-old immigration activist from Nevada, delivered the Democrats' Spanish-language response, seeking to cast the president's policies and comments about immigrants in the U.S. illegally as divisive and destructive to millions of otherwise law-abiding families.She spoke of the case of Guadalupe Garcia de Rayos, an Arizona mother thought to be among the first immigrants deported as a result of Trump's executive order that widely expanded the category of immigrants whom the government considers deportation priorities."Today Guadalupe is far from her children who are U.S. citizens and who are an example of the great impact that Trump's actions have over the American people in general, not just on the undocumented community," Silva said in the remarks that aired on several Spanish-language networks, including Univision and Telemundo."In this country, there is no space for discrimination, racial profiling or persecution," Silva said. "But sadly, this is what the Trump administration has brought forth for Latinos and immigrants."Their choice of an immigrant to give an official response to the president's address signaled one way that Democrats are trying to sharply contrast their party with Trump's recent orders on immigration and refugees, which many have denounced as discriminatory.The choice of Silva suggests that she continues to be seen as a rising star within the party. Silva co-founded the advocacy group DREAM Big Vegas, which works on behalf of young people who, like her, were brought to the U.S. illegally as children.In an interview with NPR, Silva said her remarks Tuesday night were targeted less at these young immigrants, many of whom are currently protected under an Obama-era program, and instead at their parents. Many of them fear imminent deportation after Trump's recent executive orders."I'm talking to my mom and dad," Silva said. "I'm talking to the people that have been here 20, 30 years and have been unable to find a pathway to citizenship. Those are the people at home right now and living in fear. Those are the people afraid to go to the grocery store."Silva said her speech had been planned as a direct rebuttal to the way she expected the president to characterize immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally — as dangerous."I understand the difficulty that the families are facing," she said of the guests whose relatives were killed, but she said she believed they were invited to the speech "to continue that constant rhetoric that undocumented immigrants are criminals."Silva first came to national prominence when, in 2014, President Obama spoke about her as he announced an ultimately failed program to protect the parents of U.S.-citizen children. Last summer, she took the stage at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia and told the story of her family's coming to the U.S. illegally when she was 4.Silva's rise within the Democratic Party started with a letter she wrote to her senator, then-Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, when Silva was 21. Reid wrote back, and the two continued corresponding.Silva said it was New York Sen. Chuck Schumer's office that extended the invitation to deliver Tuesday's Spanish-language response. She said she was honored by the chance to represent the hundreds of thousands of so-called DREAMers who have fought for immigrant protections, including the Obama program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, which currently shields them from deportation. Last week, memos outlining how the Trump administration will implement new immigration actions explicitly exempted DACA."It's a huge responsibility," she said of Tuesday's response. "Right now is a time when a lot of people are saying to go back into the shadows. It's very difficult to go back to the way we were living when we've had something that we've fought for so hard, so when the opportunity presented itself, I took it."
Some of the proceeds from the Obamas' two upcoming books will be donated to charity, both by the publisher and the authors.Penguin has published books by the Obamas previously, and the publisher's CEO said in a statement:"We are absolutely thrilled to continue our publishing partnership with President and Mrs. Obama. With their words and their leadership, they changed the world, and every day, with the books we publish at Penguin Random House, we strive to do the same. Now, we are very much looking forward to working together with President and Mrs. Obama to make each of their books global publishing events of unprecedented scope and significance."The publisher said it will donate one million books in the Obama family's name to First Book, a nonprofit organization that provides educational materials to children in need. According to a press release from Penguin Random House, the Obamas will also donate a "significant portion" of the books' proceeds to charities, including the Obama Foundation.
Protesters take part in a No Ban, No Wall rally to support immigrants and oppose a border wall on the steps of the Texas Capitol.In a lunch meeting with television anchors before the president's address to Congress Tuesday — a meeting that has traditionally been largely off the record — President Trump said he was open to another attempt at an immigration overhaul.Initially, the White House (which has been critical of anonymous sourcing) insisted that the news not be attributed to the president."When politicians talk about 'immigration reform' they mean: amnesty, cheap labor and open borders," the document says. "The Schumer-Rubio immigration bill was nothing more than a giveaway to the corporate patrons who run both parties. Real immigration reform puts the needs of working people first — not wealthy globetrotting donors. We are the only country in the world whose immigration system puts the needs of other nations ahead of our own. That must change."Which is to say Trump has never outright opposed immigration reform, but exactly what he envisions has never been clear. There's much more clarity on immigration enforcement, sanctuary cities and border protection.My source is not the president, but can confirm that Trump is apparently now open to a comprehensive immigration bill. Details unclear...The plot thickens. Trump indicated to anchors he could be open to legalization for some people in US illegally, citizenship for DreamersExactly what the president is contemplating now isn't clear, as AP's Julie Pace reports. The White House indicated Trump is, in fact, open to doing something on immigration reform."I do know that the president has been very clear in his process that the immigration system is broken and needs massive reform," White House spokesman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said. "And he's made clear that he's open to having conversations about that.""President Trump said Thursday that he was open to considering a comprehensive immigration reform plan if senators come up with a new one, but he said he opposes a 2013 proposal that passed the U.S. Senate with bipartisan support."The president's brief comments on the issue came up during a White House lunch meeting with a group of Democratic and Republican senators that also touched on the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to serve on the Supreme Court and the nation's opioid epidemic, according to participants."On immigration, Trump said he was open to reviewing details of the 2013 immigration bill written by a bipartisan 'Gang of Eight' senators, according to Sen. Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.), who recounted details of the lunch to reporters." 'He's open to reviewing the piece of legislation,' Manchin said. 'He says, 'Well, you've got to start working on it again,' and I says, 'Absolutely we will.' And that was encouraging.""After the border is secured and after everything gets normalized, we're going to make a determination on the people that you're talking about who are terrific people, they're terrific people but we are gonna make a determination at that — But before we make that determination — Lesley, it's very important, we want to secure our border."In January, Trump signed a pair of executive orders aimed at keeping his campaign promises on immigration enforcement and building the wall. And recently the Department of Homeland Security clarified its policies in a memo to employees.
The logo of online payment company PayPal is pictured during an event in Saint-Denis, France, in December 2013.Updated at 4 p.m. ET Thursday with Paypal's latest responseA class action lawsuit filed in Illinois on Tuesday alleges that PayPal misled tens of thousands of people about charitable donations made on the company's platform.Specifically, it says the PayPal Giving Fund would tell users they were donating to a specific organization of their choice, but PayPal would actually redirect those funds to a different charity, without telling the donor or original charity.Thousands of organizations missed out on donations because of the practice, the lawsuit claims.PayPal's policies allow for donations to be redirected, but the company denies that it's done without notification — and also denies that it earns any interest in the process.Many larger national and international charities have both accounts. But "hundreds of thousands of smaller charities" have not gone through the process, the lawsuit says.Nevertheless, those charities are listed on the Giving Fund site, without any indication that they aren't set up to receive funds.The lawsuit, however, says that PayPal and the Giving Fund "generally fail" to inform charities that there are funds waiting for them. Meanwhile, the donor receives a misleading confirmation that their donation went through, and PayPal accrues interest on the donation for six months before redirecting it to another group, the suit alleges.The donor would continue to believe their donation went through without a hitch, and the would-be recipient of the funds would never know that the donation had been attempted.The lawsuit was filed by Terry Kass and the nonprofit Friends for Health, on behalf of anyone else who was affected by the practice.Kass attempted to donate money to Friends for Health and a number of other charities, the suit says, but only $100 of $3,250 actually went through to the organization of her choice. By chance, after talking to one intended recipient, a local legal aid clinic, she realized her donation was missing — and contacted PayPal repeatedly for an explanation.She was told multiple times that her donations were delivered, the suit says. Then a PayPal employee explained the need for the organizations to register for accounts, and said that otherwise the company would "redistribute these funds to similar charities."A PayPal spokesperson told NPR by email that the company is reviewing the lawsuit and is "fully prepared to defend ourselves vigorously."The company says the Giving Fund "does not hold any donations in interest bearing accounts, and therefore earns no interest on charitable donations," and that when a donation is received for a charity that isn't enrolled in the Fund, the company contacts the nonprofit "to notify them of the gift and help them enroll."
Starbucks has announced it will open its first location in Italy in this historic post office building in downtown Milan.Starbucks has come full circle.One might think Italian coffeehouses would be shaken by the looming arrival of this global java giant. But many are saying, bring it on.Set to open in late 2018, Starbucks' first outpost in the espresso motherland will be a Roastery, one of its higher-end, sprawling locations where beans are roasted in-house and visitors can witness the entire coffee-making process, from green beans to finished cup. Roastery locations also feature drinks not found at regular Starbucks, like the Shakerato, an espresso shaken with ice and a dash of demerara syrup.The Milan Roastery will be housed in the historic Palazzo Delle Poste building, in Piazza Cordusio, just a three-minute walk from the core of the city's financial district.So why did it take Starbucks more than 30 years to come back to where it all began?Partly, the delay was out of "our deep respect for the Italian people and their rich heritage and culture around the art of coffee," a Starbucks spokesperson told NPR in an email. "We are coming to Italy to learn from the best, but also to bring our own unique offer to the Italian consumer: a third place between home and work to take time and enjoy a perfectly crafted cup of coffee. We believe that there is a strong consumer base in Italy."Working with Italian licensee and business partner Percassi, Starbucks will also open "a small number" of regular coffeehouses in Milan for the balance of 2018, the company said. All told, Starbucks says the stores will create around 350 jobs in Italy."Frankly, I'd be more wary of the Italian bars in my neighborhood than of Starbucks' diluted coffee," says Cristian Marone, co-manager of Bar dei Bossi, a coffeehouse that opened three years ago in Milan, a four-minute walk from Starbucks' forthcoming Roastery location in Piazza Cordusio. "If I ever went to Starbucks, I would feel like a number, not a customer. In our bar, customer care is crucial."Eleonora Fornaciari, owner of Milan's Caffè Rivoli, is also saying come at me. "Traditional espresso and cappuccino are deeply rooted in our Italian culture," says Fornaciari. She says Starbucks' fancy drinks may appeal to foreigners and curious Italians, but it will never displace authentic Italian coffee."Clerks working in that part of the city couldn't afford prices like that," Fornaciari says. "Although executives and lawyers working in Piazza Cordusio could."One might suppose that another coffeehouse owner, Vito Bossi, 60, would feel most threatened by the coming of Starbucks to Milan. Bossi's coffeehouse, Bar Cordusio, is located right in front of the Palazzo delle Poste building, where Starbucks will open.But Bossi almost looks forward to the opening, because, he says, he and Starbucks aren't really in the same business."We're an Italian bar," Bossi says proudly. "In Italy, few people love Starbucks' products." But he thinks Starbucks' presence will attract more customers and tourists."There's going to be business for both of us," he says.
Then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump waves to the crowd after speaking at the National Rifle Association convention in May 2016. The NRA supports the repeal of the Obama-era rule.President Trump signed a measure into law Tuesday that rescinds an Obama-era rule aimed at blocking gun sales to certain mentally ill people.As we have reported, Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, a leading supporter of the rule's repeal, has stated that "if a specific individual is likely to be violent due to the nature of their mental illness, then the government should have to prove it."
Jared Kushner and Stephen Bannon in September 2016 in Canton, Ohio.Updated at 5 a.m. ET SundayFinancial disclosures from members of the Trump administration are revealing the extent of their wealth and much of where it comes from.Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump and real estateThe couple has emerged as influential advisers in Trump's White House, unpaid to avoid triggering anti-nepotism rules. Kushner was cleared for the job in January, while Ivanka Trump announced this past week that she would assume an official role.The documents show Kushner divested dozens of businesses and investments to avoid conflicts of interest with his public service. He has also resigned from more than 260 posts at various organizations and corporations.In the documents, Ivanka Trump also reports a stake in the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., with her share valued between $5 million and $25 million. The filing says she made between $1 million and $5 million in profit off this stake in 2016 and part of 2017.Stephen Bannon and the Mercers"The disclosure suggests that Bannon Strategic Advisors served as an umbrella company for receiving fees he earned from interests in other companies such as Breitbart News, Cambridge Analytica and Glittering Steel, a company that produced the documentary "Clinton Cash," on which Ms. Mercer served as an executive producer, as well as ads for Republican candidates."Gary Cohn and Goldman SachsHe made more than $1 million — there are no details of how much more — from dividends from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.Flynn and RussiaTwo days after that, he resigned as national security adviser after reports emerged about his meeting with Russia's ambassador and his misleading of Vice President Mike Pence and other officials about the meeting.Flynn lists an income of at least $1.37 million on the more recent disclosure. Of that, he made $827,055 from Flynn Intel Group LLC, his consulting firm, which has been "inactive" since December.Trump, Pence disclosures to come laterThe disclosed documents provide a snapshot of each appointee's holdings as they took office. Many of the records showing subsequent divestitures or resignations will be released later this year. The White House says some appointees are still in the process of divesting assets.The release of the financial disclosure forms is in compliance with a federal ethics law that requires high-ranking executive branch appointees to disclose their financial holdings and reach agreements with ethics officials. These agreements aim to ensure that none of the appointee's holdings conflict with his or her duties. Often, the agreements require a sale of assets, resignations from posts or recusals from handling particular matters.The president and vice president, as elected officials, do have to file financial disclosures, but at a later time. The two of them are also exempt from many conflict-of-interest and ethics laws that apply to their staff.NPR's Peter Overby and Tamara Keith contributed to this report.
In an exhibit at the Samek Art Museum, artist Jonathon Keats explores what the world would look like if animals and plants got to use human innovation for their own benefit. Here, flowers use "botanical sex toys" to simulate bee pollination. "What got me thinking was the fact that (artificial pollination) didn't seem like much fun for the plants," Keats says.Jonathon Keats has turned it on its head.The central question of the works: We steal the animal kingdom's evolutionary inventions, so why shouldn't the animal kingdom steal ours?Take for instance, his "GPS For Birds" model:GPS For BirdsLike a vicious innovation circle, Keats says humans create technology to fix problems caused by the technology they already have. His exhibit pushes that concept into the absurd."Where it gets more interesting for me is where all of this starts to fall apart," Keats says. "Does it really make much sense for us to have all of these flocks of drones as ways of getting birds around? Do we really want to bring other organisms into this kind of pileup of technology on top of technology that is very much the human way?"In other words, even if it's possible, why create thousands or tens of thousands of drone GPS magnet planes, when we could just work to combat the damage to the planet that's hurting the birds in the first place?"This way to me seems, potentially, to be unsustainable — and certainly to be questionable in terms of the logic," Keats says.His exhibit, which explores a number of other philosophical questions as well, is on display at the Samek Museum in Lewisburg, Pa., until June.You can see some of his other designs below:
New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Friday that he's developing a plan to shut down the Rikers Island jail complex, seen in 2014.New York Mayor Bill de Blasio plans to close the city's notorious Rikers Island jail. But even he acknowledges that the process will not be quick or easy."It will take many years," de Blasio said at a news conference today at City Hall. "It will take many tough decisions along the way. But it will happen."There are currently about 10,000 inmates at the Rikers Island jail complex, most of them waiting for trial. Amid reports of widespread violence by inmates and guards, the push to replace Rikers has been gaining momentum.Last year, de Blasio called that a "noble concept." But he stopped short of endorsing the idea because of concerns about the high cost. His administration pushed to reform Rikers Island instead. Now de Blasio is throwing his support behind a plan to phase out and replace the jail over the next decade."The death of Kalief Browder was a wake-up call to this city," de Blasio said. "His death shook the whole city and opened everyone's eyes and made people think twice."De Blasio would not say where those new jail facilities might be located. Any potential locations would require approval from the city council, and would likely face significant local opposition."Right now, Rikers is an abomination," said City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito, because inmates are "warehoused" on an island in the East River between Manhattan and Queens, far from their families and friends. "That does not help anyone on a path to rehabilitation," Mark-Viverito said, "so the idea of a community-based approach is laudable, I think. And it will have to lead to tough conversations and tough decisions."Mayor de Blasio, who is running for reelection this year, said he was reluctant to close Rikers Island until a viable replacement was in sight. But de Blasio says falling crime rates and bail reform efforts convinced him that the city jail population could be brought down to about 5000 within a decade, making the plan to replace Rikers possible."A year ago, we didn't think it could be done," de Blasio said. "It would been irresponsible for me to say we had a plan if we didn't have a real plan. We now have a real plan."
Sometimes you've gotta crack a few eggs... Twitter's new default avatar is aggressively generic.But over time, Twitter's eggs came to symbolize something different: users who remain shadowy on purpose, to harass their fellow tweeters.Today, Twitter announced that it was doing away with the egg as its default avatar, opting instead for a nondescript person-shape figure. No more bright colors, either — the new avatar is all gray.First, the company says, it has a new look as of last year, and it wants users' avatars to reflect the "diversity and expressiveness" of the platform.Second, it says, the egg was cute — too cute. The egg didn't inspire enough people to want to change their avatar. So Twitter is making the default avatar ... worse on purpose: "The new default image feels more like an empty state or placeholder and we hope it encourages people to upload images that express themselves."Since 2010, the egg has been the avatar given to new users on Twitter. But it came to be associated with anonymous harassers.Third, Twitter addresses the elephant in the virtual room: that the egg often became a symbol of harassment:"We've noticed patterns of behavior with accounts that are created only to harass others — often they don't take the time to personalize their accounts. This has created an association between the default egg profile photo and negative behavior, which isn't fair to people who are still new to Twitter and haven't yet personalized their profile photo."As anyone who has been trolled can attest, the most virulent tweets often come from people not using their real names. And many of those accounts sport the egg avatar, because when you're creating an account for the sole purpose of harassing others anonymously, why take the time to upload a picture and risk giving clues to your identity?One problem that the egg had obviated, Twitter's design team explained, was that "generic person" avatars employed by social networks often look masculine. (Those generic people rarely have long hair, for starters.)To make its new avatar more gender-neutral, Twitter explained that it gave the generic figure narrower shoulders and made the head less circle, more oblong.Naturally, people used Twitter to criticize Twitter."We hope this new default profile photo encourages more people to express themselves on Twitter!" the company wrote in its post.But not the trolls presumably.
Syrian refugee Monzer Omar, 34, was recently reunited with his family in Germany. Wife Walaa Ahmed, 26, holds 14-month-old Lossin. Omar holds Lamar (left), age 4, and Lojain, 2.Here's an update on a story that NPR started following almost two years ago in Izmir, Turkey, a city on the edge of the Mediterranean Sea. That's where NPR's Ari Shapiro first met a teacher from Syria — a father in his early 30s named Monzer al-Omar.Omar had been in Izmir for a week, waiting for a phone call from a human smuggler who would put him onto a crowded raft heading for Greece. Once the call came, Omar said, he would have just five minutes to gather his belongings, run to the beach, get on a raft and go.Over the months that followed, NPR reporters followed Omar on his journey — joining him by foot, bus and train across Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary, Austria, and finally to Germany, where he settled in the city of Dortmund.Omar, originally from a village near the city of Hama, had left his pregnant wife, Walaa Ahmed, and two young daughters in Syria with his parents. He didn't want them to risk their lives making the dangerous journey with him to Europe. But every day, he would send a voice message home to his wife, children and parents, whom he missed terribly."Maybe I will never see them again," he said of his parents. But he held out hope that he would someday see his wife and kids.By last summer, his wife had given birth to another girl. In June, Omar, still in Germany, was among a group of refugees who met Samantha Power, then the U.S. ambassador to the U.N.By then, he was feeling increasingly anxious."Maybe my family will die. Maybe my children will die, OK? What's the use of coming here? I came here just to help them," he said. "What's the use if I come here and I lose my family?""I think his heart is breaking," Power told NPR.But a few weeks ago, Omar got back in touch with NPR with some good news."My life completely changed," he said.His wife and daughters arrived in Germany in January.First, they were smuggled overnight across the Syrian border into Turkey. Walaa Omar carried their baby, now 14 months old, during the 10-hour trek in November. Lamar, 4, and Lojain, 2, walked alongside. Once in Turkey, they registered with the German Embassy, which contacted Omar.Omar described the January day when he saw his wife and children for the first time in more than a year."I feel my heart will go out of my chest," he said. "I'm waiting at the airport and I look to the people who get out from the airplane — no, not my wife, not my family." And then, he said, "I saw my little girl, she saw me, and I run immediately to hug my daughter and I was crying with my daughter and my wife. Everyone in the airport was taking photo for us."Omar says that for the first five days after the reunion, he couldn't sleep. He would wake up and look at his daughters sleeping beside him."I'm not dreaming," he said. "I ask myself — I'm not dreaming. I speak with my wife. We are here together again. We are not dreaming."This is the end of a chapter, but not the end of Omar's story. Omar's wife and children only have a temporary visa. They're hoping for permission to stay permanently in Germany.Omar, who has been granted a three-year asylum period, is working on getting his teaching qualifications and enrolling the kids in school. His wife wants to start learning German. And the entire family is about to move into a new, bigger home, with a garden.
A young manatee swims at a zoo in France in 2017."It has been doing very well," Kloer says. "It has been coming back."So, great news ... right?Many conservationists argue the manatee's reclassification from "endangered" to "threatened" under the Endangered Species Act is far from the unalloyed victory it may appear to be."A federal reclassification at this time will seriously undermine the chances of securing the manatee's long-term survival. With the new federal administration threatening to cut 75% of regulations, including those that protect our wildlife and air and water quality, the move to downlist manatees can only be seen as a political one."The organization argues that the FWS "failed to adequately consider data from 2010 to 2016, during which time manatees suffered from unprecedented mortality events linked to habitat pollution, dependence on artificial warm water sources, and record deaths from watercraft strikes."Still, the FWS emphasized that the downlisting will not have an appreciable effect on existing federal protections and that the manatee will "continue to be protected under the Marine Mammal Protection Act."
The takeout counter at Mamaleh's Delicatessen in Cambridge, Mass. The restaurant recently implemented revenue sharing, where a percentage of sales is funneled to kitchen workers.They say too many cooks can spoil the broth. But in cities like San Francisco and Boston, restaurants are facing a shortage of kitchen staff, caused largely by low pay.The problem can be traced to the wage gap between tipped and nontipped employees. In an effort to bridge that gap and attract kitchen workers, some restaurants are now trying an experiment: revenue sharing.You can see that experiment play out at Mamaleh's Delicatessen, a Jewish deli in Cambridge, Mass. On the day we visited, the post-lunch crowd noshed on knishes, pastrami and chopped liver, which is made by line cooks like Marvin Bonilla.Bonilla loves his job — but there's a "but." On average at Mamaleh's, those who work in the front of the house and earn tips make twice as much as do staffers in the kitchen.Tyler Sundet, a co-owner of Mamaleh's, carves up some corned beef."If we get busy or we are slow, we make the same, but for these people upfront, if they get busy they make more money," Bonilla says. "And then you see who really does the hard job. The back kitchen is the part of the kitchen that's making [all the] food."Restaurant owners say the wage gap is at the root of a shortage of kitchen workers. To address the problem, Mamaleh's is one of at least a dozen restaurants in the Boston area to adopt revenue sharing.It varies from restaurant to restaurant, but the mechanics of revenue sharing are simple: take a percentage of sales and funnel it to kitchen workers.At Mamaleh's, they're experimenting with raising prices and dedicating 5 percent of food sales to kitchen staff.Restaurateur Keith Harmon is trying a different approach at his three Jamaica Plain, Mass., restaurants. There, customers pay a 3 percent fee on all sales that goes directly to the kitchen staff.Keith Harmon is part owner of three restaurants in Jamaica Plain, Mass. In 2015, he established revenue sharing by charging a 3 percent fee that goes straight to kitchen employees. Harmon helped persuade the owners of Mamaleh's Delicatessen and State Park in Cambridge to implement a similar program in March.The goal, says Harmon, is to help close the wage gap so that "the busier the restaurant is, the better it is for everyone who is working in the back of house."And he wanted a way to close the wage gap without eliminating tipping entirely."We didn't want to alienate the tipped staff to take care of the nontipped staff, and so we came up with this pennies-on-the-dollar approach," he says.Before revenue sharing, tipped employees earned about 2 1/2 times as much as back-of-the-house staff, according to Harmon. Now, that pay gap has been cut by a third.Harmon admits revenue sharing is only a partial solution, but he calls it a highly effective form of "duct tape."Revenue sharing seems to be confined to a handful of wealthy cities on the East and West coasts. Officials at restaurant associations in Texas and Pennsylvania, for example, say they don't know of anyone implementing the model in their states.But it's taking off in California. Sharokina Shams, vice president of communications for the California Restaurant Association, calls revenue sharing "the emerging new norm," especially in the Bay Area."The costs of operating a business in San Francisco, Oakland, Berkeley, are astronomically high," Shams says. That has forced restaurants to experiment with new ways to raise revenue to pay staff, she says.A receipt from Centre Street Cafe in Jamaica Plain, Mass., includes a 3 percent "hospitality administration fee," which comes out to 39 cents on $13 of food sales. The entire fee goes to nontipped employees in the kitchen.Back at Mamaleh's in Cambridge, the higher prices are fine by regular Dan Meyers."I'm happy to pay another 20 percent — no really, I mean it," Meyers says. "It's a great thing, and it shows that the people running the place — it's not just lip service. They actually care about their people."Mamaleh's also cares about keeping its kitchen staffed. The restaurant is constantly hiring, and its management hopes revenue sharing will reduce turnover.Meanwhile, the only thing line cook Bonilla is turning over is the potato latkes. He is beaming at the idea that his pay will go up by as much as $3 per hour."We are all happy about that," Bonilla says, adding, "This is one of the best places I've ever worked in my life."And then there are the fringe benefits: all the matzo balls, chopped liver and latkes a line cook could want.
A mourner walks through a cemetery in Jinjiang during the Tomb-Sweeping Festival in 2015.Every year around this time, typically on April 4 or April 5 on the Gregorian calendar, China honors the dead by taking a few days off and returning to ancestors' grave sites. There, as the holiday's name suggests, they break out their cleaning tools and get to work ensuring everything is in fine order.When they're not flying kites on the occasion, families often place offerings of food at memorials, pour out wine and lay some budding willow branches to welcome the arrival of spring.These celebrations of life — lives past and life renewed with spring — are commonly accompanied by acts of destruction. NPR's Anthony Kuhn notes that many people burn fake paper money for their ancestors to spend in the afterlife, often going so far as to set ablaze effigies of modern luxuries like cars and iPads.During the festival, celebrants commonly set fire to effigies of modern conveniences like phones.This concurrence of old and new has shaped the festival's recent history, too.It wasn't reinstated as a national holiday until 2008, when the Chinese government set aside some time each year for people to escape their jobs, pack their things and commemorate the past." 'Qingming is here, filling our hearts with longing,' read the text message signed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs that popped up, unsolicited, on the mobile phones of many Chinese ..." 'Cherish the memory of our revolutionary martyrs,' was the first item on the message. 'Don't forget their heroic undertakings,' it continued. 'Carry forward the spirit of the Chinese people. Look forward to the great rebirth of the Chinese nation.' "And then there's a less-poetic way that the holiday has been changed by the decades.Even as more and more people have filtered into big urban centers, the plots of land where these city folks' relatives remain are still in the country. Anthony explains. So, like Americans packing into cars for Memorial Day trips, many Chinese will pile into their vehicles and battle the traffic back to hometowns they haven't seen for some time.Luckily for them, at least, they won't have to worry about the tolls: Those little roadway annoyances are suspended for the holiday.
Malebogo Malefhe was honored with a 2017 International Women of Courage award at the U.S. State Department.When people find out that Malebogo Malefhe uses a wheelchair because she was shot by her boyfriend, the first question they ask is: "What did you do to him?"Now Malefhe, who sustained eight bullets from her boyfriend of 10 years, wants to make sure that no woman who has faced domestic abuse is asked this question ever again.The incident in 2009 nearly cost Malefhe her life. Since then, she has devoted herself to fighting gender-based violence in her native Botswana and teaching women that when men hurt them, it's not their fault.Malefhe, 37, a former basketball player for Botswana's national team, also advocates for the advancement of women in sports, with a focus on women with disabilities. She spoke with us about the shooting, her goals and how she stays motivated to help others. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.It's a tragic story. After your boyfriend shot you, he took his own life. They call it passion killing, and it's been a trend [in Botswana] over the past 15 to 20 years. You hear stories of men in relationships who disagree about certain things, then brutalize women or hang themselves.We have cultural norms that limit women, like the bride's price — the dowry. It bounds women to men and makes men think that once they have paid the price, then they own the woman. Culturally, women are not allowed to speak out against their husbands. When they try to talk to them or voice their concerns, men become threatened. They don't really like it. So they take action.You barely survived. You were left with spinal cord injuries and now you use a wheelchair. How did you find the strength to overcome it all?I don't want to lie — it was one of the scariest moments of my life. It was not easy. My injury was extensive. I almost lost my life. I had to learn how to use my body again. I had to learn to live over again. My friends and family stood by me and gave me the hope to keep living my life.To find myself in that bottomless pit took so much courage to rise. And when I did, I looked at my life and said, I can use my story to help women. If I don't tell my story, who else is going to do that?Did you ever feel sorry for yourself?How are you helping women make sure they never have to go what you went through?I tell women to look at the signs while they still have the time. Walk out while they still have the chance. They may not have the same opportunity as me. Some women have lost their lives because of violence. Others have been locked up in a mental institution because they've lost their mind because of the beatings or abuse.I tell women that every time a crime is perpetrated, they should report it. But they report issues of abuse, then withdraw them. It's difficult for authorities to follow up on their issues or assist them accordingly. Women need education to open them up to the realization that abuse is prevalent and they need to find ways to overcome it.What part of your story surprises them the most?My strength. It still shocks me as well. I don't drown in self-pity. That is past now. Now I am the new me, in a wheelchair.You were a basketball player on Botswana's national team before you were shot. How are you staying connected to sports?You're also a champion of "self-love." What does that mean, exactly?We meet monthly with a group of girls. They are from small villages, impoverished; many are school dropouts. We teach them the value of living your purpose. To do that, they have to look inside themselves and note what they want to do with their lives. If they know this, it will help them be vigilant about their own lives.It seems like you've found your purpose.I'm just in the right place.
Donald Harvey is led back to jail in 1987 after pleading guilty to eight murder charges and one voluntary manslaughter charge in London, Ky. He was serving consecutive life sentences when he died Thursday at age 64.A former nurse's aide convicted of killing more than three dozen people died on Thursday, two days after he was attacked and beaten in his Ohio prison cell.As Ohio Public Radio's Karen Kasler reports, "64-year-old Donald Harvey had been nicknamed the 'Angel of Death' in 1987, after admitting to killing 37 elderly or chronically ill people in hospitals in Cincinnati and rural Kentucky beginning in 1970. But after his conviction, he claimed that he had killed up to 50 people.""He died Thursday at Mercy Health St. Vincent Medical Center. ... The Ohio Highway Patrol continues to investigate his death, said spokesman Lt. Robert Sellers. He would not comment on the attack or Harvey's injuries. Authorities have identified a suspect, but not yet filed charges, Lieutenant Sellers said.""Mr. Harvey joined in the joking, and because his victims were old or in poor health, their deaths did not arouse much suspicion."He'd say, 'I got another one today,' " the prosecutor told the court. "And everybody thought it was just a joke."But former Hamilton County Prosecutor Arthur Ney Jr., who prosecuted the cases in Cincinnati, disputes the idea that Harvey was a mercy killer."He killed because he liked to kill," Ney told the AP.
The House and Senate have until midnight Friday to pass the spending deal to keep the federal government funded.Updated at 9:45 a.m. ET MondayCongressional leaders have struck a deal to keep the federal government funded through September.The budget negotiations provided Democrats with a rare opportunity for leverage and clout, since Democratic votes will be needed to advance the spending plan through the Senate — and possibly the House if enough members of the conservative Freedom Caucus vote against it.Democratic leaders took advantage of that, and as a result the final plan does not include any money for one of President Trump's top priorities: a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border."Early on in this debate, Democrats clearly laid out our principles," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said in a Sunday night statement. "At the end of the day, this is an agreement that reflects those principles."That's not to say the spending agreement doesn't include any Republican priorities. It provides an additional $1.5 billion in funding for border security, money that is designated for technological expenditures and maintenance of existing infrastructure, and not for wall construction. The bill also increases spending for the military by about $15 billion, half of what Trump has been seeking.The final spending package includes a nearly $70 million reimbursement to law enforcement agencies for costs incurred helping to protect President Trump and the first family.It also includes funding for cash-strapped Puerto Rico's Medicaid program, and a $2 billion boost for the National Institutes of Health, which Trump had proposed reducing funding for. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi singled out those two provisions in a statement applauding the agreement.The spending bill also provides additional funding to combat opioid abuse and for Pell Grants for summer school.On top of that it delivers Republicans the political win of avoiding a shutdown — or even the threat of a shutdown — at a time when the party controls the House, Senate and White House.House and Senate votes are expected later this week. Lawmakers have until midnight Friday to pass the deal to keep the federal government funded.The federal government was initially set to run out of money at the end of last week, but last Friday, Congress bought a week's time to finalize the bipartisan agreement.The new agreement follows a stretch of deal-making on Capitol Hill that led the Trump administration to concede on two sticking points.Last Monday, Trump dropped his demand that the spending bill include a down payment for his wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Democrats, who flexed their leverage in spending negotiations, refused to support any bill that included wall funding.
Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, pictured right, announced Sunday that she'll retire from Congress at the end of her term next year. In this 2016 photo, Ros-Lehtinen, puts heart glasses on a dog at the ASPCA's Paws for Love Valentine's Day pet adoption event at the Capitol.U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the first Cuban-American elected to Congress and the first congressional Republican to publicly support marriage equality, is retiring next year at the end of her term.Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen addresses attendees at the launch of a public service announcement about LGBT nondiscrimination that featured her family in 2016. Ros-Lehtinen was the first congressional Republican to publicly support gay marriage, and has been a vocal advocate of LGBT rights.The Republican congresswoman said she had no doubt she could've won re-election had she sought it in 2018, despite a shifting political climate in her district."Big Bad Wolf"She became the first woman to chair a standing congressional committee, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, according to the Associated Press, and made a name for herself as a foreign-policy hawk.Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen was featured in this 2016 Human Rights Campaign video, talking about transgender rights.Prior to serving in the U.S. House of Representatives, Ros-Lehtinen was also the first Hispanic woman to serve in the Florida House of Representatives and the Florida Senate. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush worked as her campaign manager during her first campaign for Congress in 1989, and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio worked in her office as an intern in the 1990s.The congresswoman is scheduled to announce her retirement in a press conference on Monday, according to the AP.
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte talks with reporters in Manila on Friday. President Donald Trump invited Duterte to the White House in a phone call this weekend, despite concerns about the leader's violent war on drugs.During a "very friendly" phone conversation, President Donald Trump invited Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte to the White House, signaling a massive shift in attitude from the U.S. toward a leader known best for inciting an extrajudicial war on drugs in his country that's killed more than 7,500 people.A statement from the White House said Trump invited Duterte to discuss the "importance of the United States-Philippines alliance," and that the two also talked about "the fact that the Philippine government is fighting very hard to rid its country of drugs.""Do your duty, and in the process, you kill 1,000 persons, I will protect you," Duterte told police on July 1, the day after he was sworn in, Michael Sullivan reported for NPR.The Philippines president has also been accused of encouraging civilians to kill people attempting to buy or sell drugs.It isn't the first time since Trump has taken office that he has looked past a leader's human rights issues, in an effort to strengthen ties.The White House also hosted Egyptian leader Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi a few weeks ago, despite concerns about an Egyptian government that's sent tens of thousands of political dissidents to jail since the 2013 coup that brought el-Sissi to power."The Trump administration has been unfortunately silent as to the importance of American values," said Maryland Sen. Ben Cardin, the ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, at the time.Trump is scheduled to visit the Philippines in November to participate in a summit with the Association of South East Asian Nations."We're going to have to send China a clear signal that, first, the island-building stops," Rex Tillerson, then secretary of state nominee, told senators in January. "And second, your access to those islands also is not going to be allowed."
President Donald Trump greets supporters after speaking to a joint session of Congress."I've asked my transition team to develop a list of executive actions we can take on Day 1 to restore our laws and bring back our jobs," Trump said in November. "It's about time.""I think the president is learning that the all-powerful position of the presidency is not the end-all," said Rep. Joe Crowley, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.As the 100 day marker passes this weekend, here is a look at some of the major events that have transpired in the White House and on Capitol Hill.President Trump signs executive orders on tax reform alongside Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin, Sen. David Perdue, R-Georgia, and Rep. Claudia Tenney, R-N.Y., at the Treasury Department April 21.Gabriella Demczuk is a freelance photojournalist based in Washington, D.C. She covers politics for the New York Times, CNN and NPR.
Except, of course, that Genesis never names the apple but simply refers to "the fruit." To quote from the King James Bible:And the woman said to the serpent, "We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden; but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, 'You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die.'""Fruit" is also the word Milton employs in the poem's sonorous opening lines:Of Mans First Disobedience, and the FruitOf that Forbidden Tree, whose mortal tasteBrought Death into the World, and all our woeBut in the course of his over-10,000-line poem, Milton names the fruit twice, explicitly calling it an apple. So how did the apple become the guilty fruit that brought death into this world and all our woe?The short and unexpected answer is: a Latin pun."Peri could be absolutely any fruit," he says. "Rabbinic commentators variously characterized it as a fig, a pomegranate, a grape, an apricot, a citron, or even wheat. Some commentators even thought of the forbidden fruit as a kind of wine, intoxicating to drink."A detail of Michelangelo's fresco in the Vatican's Sistine Chapel depicting the Fall of Man and expulsion from the Garden of EdenEve giving Adam the forbidden fruit, by Lucas Cranach the Elder.Appelbaum says that Milton's use of the term "apple" was ambiguous. "Even in Milton's time the word had two meanings: either what was our common apple, or, again, any fleshy seed-bearing fruit. Milton probably had in mind an ambiguously named object with a variety of connotations as well as denotations, most but not all of them associating the idea of the apple with a kind of innocence, though also with a kind of intoxication, since hard apple cider was a common English drink."What makes the temptation scene so absorbing and enjoyable is that, although written in archaic English, it is speckled with mundane details that make the reader stop in surprise.Take, for instance, the serpent's impeccably timed gustatory seduction. It takes place not at any old time of the day but at lunchtime:It is easy to imagine the scene. Eve, curious, credulous and peckish, gazes longingly at the contraband "Ruddie and Gold" fruit while the unctuous snake-oil salesman murmurs his encouragement. Initially, she hangs back, suspicious of his "overpraising." But soon she begins to cave: How can a fruit so "Fair to the Eye, inviting to the Taste," be evil? Surely it is the opposite, its "sciental sap" must be the source of divine knowledge. The serpent must speak true.So saying, her rash hand in evil hour Forth reaching to the Fruit, she pluck'd, she eat:Earth felt the wound, and Nature from her seatSighing through all her Works gave signs of woe,That all was lost. But Eve is insensible to the cosmic disappointment her lunch has caused. Sated and intoxicated as if with wine, she bows low before "O Sovran, vertuous, precious of all Trees," and hurries forth with "a bough of fairest fruit" to her beloved Adam, that he too might eat and aspire to godhead. Their shared meal, foreshadowed as it is by expulsion and doom, is a moving and poignant tableau of marital bliss.Meanwhile, the serpent, its mission accomplished, slinks into the gloom. Satan heads eagerly toward a gathering of fellow devils, where he boasts that the Fall of Man has been wrought by something as ridiculous as "an apple."Except that it was a fig or a peach or a pear. An ancient Roman punned – and the apple myth was born.
I, however, was at least a few hours from the nearest one. To be honest, I wasn't quite sure where I was as I was never given the address or directions, having been transported by a private car from Hyderabad, one of India's bustling tech hubs. I was spending a few days at the Prajwala facilities, a compound of several acres hidden away in the outskirts of a small town in rural Andhra Pradesh.Several months later, I would find myself thousands of miles away, walking through the small alleyways inhabited by the women of the Perna community, a tribe that practices sex work as tradition in many states and territories throughout north India, including Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. Unlike the women at Prajwala, these women live at home with their own families but are prostituted by their mothers-in-law and husbands. Their husbands or other men in the community drive a group of women to well-known prostitution areas in the town between 12 a.m. and 6 a.m., where they meet customers. The mother-in-law collects the money at night's end.It is unknown how many Pernas are sex workers today, but there are at least several hundred whom I met through my research. While they may face sexual violence, emotional abuse, and physical assaults from clients, just like women who practice prostitution in brothels, there are distinct differences in their attitude toward the work.One woman who had been rescued in a brothel raid in Bombay shared her rationale: "I have problems at home — my husband left me. That's why I am in this profession. I did it only for my two children ... I was caught." For this woman, and many others, their financial earnings allowed them to support her children back in the village.Nonetheless, while the women themselves saw the economic benefit of their work, Dr. Krishnan and many in the anti-trafficking community are concerned with the exploitative nature of the profession. The goal at Prajwala is to help all women in the sex trade regain economic and psychological independence. But doing so is undeniably complicated.For many women, the rehabilitation efforts are immensely useful, but there are a few for whom returning to the sex trade is the preferred option.In my research with the Perna, I found that these women believed that sex work was their duty and tradition. But some younger Perna women have come to question the fairness of this idea, given that most men in the community did not work and squandered money on alcohol and gamblingI came away from these two research visits with a new understanding of the complexity of sex work, of how there is a thin line between empowerment and oppression. There were sex workers who found their profession to be a valid way to make their way in the world. And there are some who argued that keeping women in NGO facilities for rehabilitation against their will is exploitation.Women in the Perna community told me that to criticize what they were doing was unfair when other women in the community were sexually unfaithful to their spouse. Members of the public agreed: "This happens in regular people's homes too. A woman sleeping with a neighbor's husband" reasoned one man who lived near the Perna community.We must be conscious of how we judge women who are in the sex trade, because each story is complicated and nuanced. And they all need immense courage to get through every day.As a doctor, I felt that the women in both NGO facilities and those in the Perna community were in true need of health care services — sexual health interventions, family planning support, mental health support and primary care.And I learned how we are failing these women by focusing too much on the sexual nature of their work rather than seeing them as people with basic needs for survival. When one Perna woman was asked if she knew about HIV or using condoms, she responded, "No one has told us about this at all."Abraar Karan is a physician and public health researcher at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. He has worked on global health endeavors with marginalized populations in Asia, Latin America, and Sub-Saharan Africa. Contact him @AbraarKaran
On the week marking President Trump's 100 days in office, his mood on Twitter was much less positive than it had been in the previous few weeks.A sentiment analysis shows these last few months have been a roller coaster of emotion.How the analysis worksA program called VADER determines the positivity or negativity of the words used in each tweet. It then assigns the tweets a score ranging from -1 to 1 (with 1 being the most positive).This week (not including Saturday's tweets), Trump landed almost exactly on an average of zero.If our healthcare plan is approved, you will see real healthcare and premiums will start tumbling down. ObamaCare is in a death spiral!I promise to rebuild our military and secure our border. Democrats want to shut down the government. Politics!So what?At times, Trump appears to tweet based on what has grabbed his attention (including what happens to be on cable news) at any given moment. Calculating the emotions in Trump's tweets is by no means a reflection of his psyche, but it might tell us something about what sorts of things please him most (getting a Supreme Court justice confirmed), and what sorts of things draw his anger (Democrats in Congress fighting his agenda).At the very least, it's a fascinating exercise.But what's perhaps most remarkable about it is that we can do it at all."The president is normally encased in a layer of aides and protected, and we know him ... at some remove," said Tom Rosenstiel, executive director of the American Press Institute."And in some ways ... it's comforting," Rosenstiel added, "because you don't see them as actual people that much, except when they want you to."It's true that President Barack Obama was on Twitter, too, but he engaged at the presidential arm's length that Rosenstiel describes. Obama's feed was a sanitized view of the office, full of official photos and health care pitches — rarely with a truly memorable tweet.Trump's account, meanwhile, offers up one notable tweet after another.That may seem like a liability, but then again, it also highlights Trump's authenticity — the part of him that so many voters found irresistible."I mean, people have obviously talked to him about [his Twitter usage]. And he's done this for years," Rosenstiel said. "He thinks it's good for us to see him before he counts to 10."
Bangladeshi activists mark the fourth anniversary of the Rana Plaza building collapse at the site where the building once stood in Savar, on the outskirts of Dhaka, on April 24.On April 24, 2013, the eight-story Rana Plaza building outside Dhaka, Bangladesh, collapsed, killing more than 1,100 people and injuring thousands of others. At the time, the building housed five garment factories that manufactured goods for major retail companies in Europe and North America.The incident shook Bangladesh's $28 billion garment industry, the second largest in the world behind China. It drew attention to horrific conditions for factory employees, and raised questions about transparency in the global garment industry in which they work.On April 29, 2013, Bangladeshi firefighters try to control a blaze during a rescue attempt as Bangladeshi army personnel begin the second phase of the rescue operation following the Rana Plaza collapse.Kashyap says that even though global apparel companies don't directly employ workers in Bangladesh, they do own and sell brands that have business relationships with the factories that employ those workers. And it's transparency about those relationships — knowing which factories are producing for which brands being sold by which parent company — that is important, she says.Companies such as Nike, Patagonia and H&M Group are among the 17 committing to adhere to the transparency pledge by the end of 2017. Others, such as Columbia Sportswear and the Walt Disney Co., which publish names and addresses of supplier factories, are acknowledged in the report as moving "in the right direction." Companies listed in the "No Commitment to Publish Supplier Factory Information" category include Hugo Boss, Mango and Walmart."The labor movement, over decades, has been demanding that parent companies have to publish their supplier information," says Kashyap. While many international retailers have been reporting that information in some capacity over the years, she says, it's been inconsistent.Kashyap says the Rana Plaza tragedy was a wake-up call because no one knew immediately which companies were sourcing clothing from the building at the time of its collapse."And so [investigators] had to actually go through the ruins to collect labels or interview surviving workers ... to hold these brands accountable," says Kashyap.'It does matter to consumers'There are many reasons a company might not want to sign the transparency pledge, Kashyap says, including fears of competitive disadvantage and anti-competition concerns.Some companies, such as Walmart, won't sign the transparency pledge because they already have their own transparency mechanisms in place. "Walmart is working to improve transparency around our supply chain through a number of initiatives," Marilee McInnis, a spokeswoman for Walmart, told NPR via email.But Kashyap says even when companies implement their own measures, it may not be enough. "We're not saying that those systems should not be in place," says Kashyap. "What we're saying is that there are clear limitations to those systems and what transparency does complements everything else you have."But agreements like the transparency pledge are still very important and they matter to consumers, says Waxman. She notes that many of the companies that have signed the pledge are members of her organization."I think consumers, if they have a choice to buy from a brand or supplier that has a very high level of labor standard compared to another one, the price being the same — I think it does matter to consumers," she says. "And if you step back and look at the spread of laws and regulations that are demanding and requiring more transparency in supply chains. I think that really speaks to the level of interest of consumers."While the transparency pledge has no real enforcement mechanism, Waxman says once a company is on the record saying it's going to disclose more information about its supply chain, this will lead to greater accountability.More transparency would also send a strong message to workers in the industry, says Kashyap of Human Rights Watch.Since the Rana Plaza collapse, Bangladeshis have become increasingly vocal in demanding better wages and working conditions. The country's minimum wage is just 32 cents an hour.When tens of thousands of workers walked off the job to protest low wages at the end of last year, it resulted in a week-long shutdown of more than 50 factories outside Dhaka."One of the things that she said was that she didn't know — a lot of workers didn't know — who they were producing for," Kashyap says. After the collapse, "They didn't know who to reach out to."
Judah (left) and Josh Ridgeway drill a hole in the Tanana River at Nenana, Alaska to measure the thickness of the ice on April 13th.Brothers Josh and Judah Ridgeway live in Nenana, a community of 375 people, about an hour southwest of Fairbanks. The brothers were hired by the Ice Classic to make regular ice measurements. They use a gas powered drill to bore through 3 to 4 feet of ice — though it's sometimes more. They do this at several locations on the Tanana, a few times a week, in April."It's actually kind of a fun project, coming out here and drillin' the holes for 'em," says Josh. "Get out here in the morning when the sun's comin' up and — play."Back in 1917, railroad engineers in Nenana wagered bets on when the ice would break up on the river. It evolved into an annual statewide guessing game in which hundreds of thousands of tickets are sold. On each ticket the buyer writes when they think the ice will go out, down to the minute.It's all good fun, and possible good fortune for ticket holders, but the Ice Classic also provides a record of climate change.The ice has gone out on the Tanana River at Nenana as early as April 20, and as late as May 20, but Thoman points to a gradual trend toward earlier breakup dates. He says what's now an average breakup date, about April 30, would have been an unusually early date in the first part of the 20th century."I think humans would think a whole lot of themselves if they think they could affect the globe," Argall says. "You know, it's a big world."That sentiment contradicts widespread scientific consensus, but it's a belief common among some Alaskans. Ice driller Josh Ridgeway says he thinks it's a cycle that human activity might be contributing to. The Ridgeway brothers made the final ice measurement of the season on April 24. It showed 29 inches of deteriorating ice, too risky to walk on. That means Alaskans will soon know who wins this year's Ice Classic jackpot, and that summer is on the way.
Credit: Chris Nickels for NPRSometimes, even professionally compassionate people get tired.Kristin Laurel, a flight nurse from Waconia, Minn., has worked in trauma units for over two decades. The daily exposure to distressing situations can sometimes result in compassion fatigue."Some calls get to you, no matter who you are," she says.Ten years ago, Laurel took a writing workshop in Minneapolis and earned a two-year fellowship that introduced her to the world of contemporary poetry. She found that, unlike other forms of writing, poetry had an efficiency and raw honesty that made it a fitting outlet for her observations as a trauma nurse.She says that writing allowed her to acknowledge her darker experiences in the ER while also taking care of herself."It's a way of letting go," she says, especially of patients who die. "I acknowledge their life as well as let go of my grief. There's definitely power and healing in that."Kristin LaurelIt is the night shift, and most of Minneapolis does not knowthat tonight a drunk man rolled onto the broken iceand fell through the Mississippi.He lies sheltered and warm in the morgue, unidentified.Behind a dumpster by the Metrodomea mother blows smoke up to the stars;she flicks sparks with a lighterand inside her pipe, a rock of crack glowsbefore it crumbles into ashand is taken by the wind.Another mother waits up for her son;he was shot in the chest, then pushed out of a fleeing car.He bleeds on black pavement, exhaust fumes hover over him.Through the back doors of the ERmedics dump off the indigentand black-booted cops track in salt and sand.We are all misplaced.An Indian braveis just plain drunk;the white paint on his cheeks and noseis from huffing paint.He is snoring off his stuporfrom drinking bottles of Listerine(the poor man's liquor).It's so easy to judgebut we are all broken, in one way or another;The officer was just trying to clean up the streetskeep his back seat sanitarywhen he picked up another filthy drunkand shoved him into the trunk of his squad car.The young nurse was connedinto being callous;It only took being spit at, being called a bitchand one punch to the face, to learn to be gruffand keep them all cuffed to the bed:She takes off soiled jeans,uncovers scraps of a shredded newspaperthe homeless man's underpants (pissed-on words).A grimy, tattered shirt is stuck to his chest,she peels it off, holding her breath, whileflakes of dead skin detach into the air.In one more hour it will be daybreak.She will go home to her clean house,her white down comforter on a pillow-topped bed.But, she knows,there is an affliction in the air.Even the snowflakes fall like ash.She washes her hands.
A truck loaded with chickens arrives at a JBS meat processing plant in Samambaia, Brazil, in March.Brazil's massive, yearslong corruption investigation has reached a historic mile-marker: J&F Investimentos, the holding company behind meatpacking giant JBS SA, agreed to pay roughly $3.2 billion in fines for its involvement in a vast graft scandal that has reached even President Michel Temer.But Temer is not the only politician to be tangled in the tendrils of the probe, known as Operation Car Wash.According to the wire service, that long list includes former presidents Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff, who was impeached herself last year.
In accordance with a court ruling, Amazon has begun offering refunds for certain unauthorized, in-app purchases made by children.Amazon is offering customers refunds for unauthorized charges their children have incurred playing games from the company's Appstore.The move comes nearly three years after the Federal Trade Commission sued Amazon in federal court over in-game charges that shocked unsuspecting parents.A judge concurred and the FTC says the company has agreed to refund up to $70 million in unintended charges.Amazon spokesman Jonathan Richardson said in a statement to NPR: "We have contacted all eligible customers who have not already received a refund for unauthorized charges to help ensure their refunds are confirmed quickly.""When we checked the account and we saw hundreds of charges from Amazon, it totaled near $10,000," Comeaux said."She cried. I had to calm her down," Comeaux recalled. "She was very upset, didn't know she was spending real money."But Amazon's Richardson said Wednesday, "Since the launch of the Appstore in 2011, Amazon has helped parents prevent purchases made without their permission by offering access to parental controls, clear notice of in-app purchasing, real-time notification for every in-app purchase and refund assistance for unauthorized purchases."The FTC asked the court to require that Amazon refund unauthorized charges and to prevent it from billing account holders for future in-app charges without their consent.Richardson noted, "The Court here affirmed our commitment to customers when it ruled no changes to current Appstore practices were required. To continue ensuring a great customer experience, we are happy to provide our customers what we have always provided: refunds for purchases they did not approve."The FTC appealed the judge's decision in hopes of securing a future ban, and Amazon appealed the refund order. Last month, both sides agreed to drop their appeals so the refund process could begin.Then in early 2013, Amazon began requiring a password for some charges, the FTC said. But even when a parent authorized a single charge, that permission sometimes lasted for up to an hour, allowing children to make more purchases without new authorization."Not until June 2014, roughly two and a half years after the problem first surfaced," did Amazon begin to require account holders' consent for in-app charges on its newer mobile devices," the FTC explained in a statement.Amazon was the holdout in the FTC's crackdown on unwitting in-app purchases. It made similar claims against Google and Apple and those companies both settled. Google agreed to refund $19 million and Apple agreed to refund $32 million to eligible customers.
A standard gauge rail locomotive carrying Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta pulls into the railway station in the city of Voi on Wednesday, during an inaugural ride on the railway from Mombasa to Nairobi.Just after the sun rose on Wednesday, people began streaming into the Mombasa terminal station. There was a red carpet, a helicopter and Kenyans dressed in their very best attire, with shimmering fabrics and dazzling hats.A little more than a hundred years after the British built a railway through their East African colony, Kenyans celebrated building one of their own.Consolata Muvea took a bus more than 10 hours to come to Mombasa for the first time and she was entranced by the train waiting at the station."I understand there is tea. There is a toilet. I want to see even the type of toilet is there," she said laughing. "Because if I hear that there is a toilet there, I just imagine. How? I am always traveling by bus and there is no toilet. How can there be a toilet here? So, I am happy."Peter Asiokomweka, 69, was marveling at the machine in front of him. It's a diesel locomotive because Kenya didn't have the infrastructure to pull off an electric train. Still, moving at around 65 mph, it is going halve the time it takes to get from the port city of Mombasa to the capital city of Nairobi."This one is going to make our country richer than it has been," Asiokomweka said. He looked around at the terminal, a modern building with swooping lines and a tower that reaches high into that vast African sky. He was awed. He says the building of this train is already overwriting the colonial legacy left by the British.Kenyans wait to board a train in the port city of Mombasa on Wednesday. The country's new Mombasa-Nairobi rail line was financed by China and built by a Chinese company.The rail line was financed with more than $3 billion borrowed from the Chinese government. A Chinese company built it, and a Chinese company will operate it for the first five years. For China, this project is part of a grand plan to revive the old Silk Road. In Africa, China imagines a vast network of rails, from Kenya, through Uganda and Burundi and up to South Sudan that can help it move its goods in and out of the continent with expediency.Speaking at the opening ceremony, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said it was a "historic moment" because the rail line will "transform the economy of this country." The government hopes cargo from the port of Mombasa will be able to flow inland faster, more efficiently and cheaper than it does moving along a two-lane highway.Kenya was already running a railway left over from colonial times. According to a World Bank analysis, refurbishing that rail would have resulted in the same performance as the new line and cost less than half of what it took to build the new railway.At the inaugural ride, however, finances were not discussed. To singing and dancing, President Kenyatta boarded the train and it began to snake its way across swaths of African bush.It's a route that the British termed the Lunatic Express, in part because lions had a habit of eating the men working on the railway. But it's spectacularly beautiful country. It's rugged plains dotted with hulking hills, and every once in a while you're likely to spot an elephant or a baobab tree jutting improbably from the ground like a prehistoric giant.And as the train cut its way from one town to another, over the course of 300 miles, one thing became certain: This was a proud moment for Kenyans. As the train lurched forward, little kids ran toward it waving and smiling, and women and men left their fieldwork and sought higher ground to get a look at this new, marvelous machine.
Purdue Pharma, which makes OxyContin, defended its efforts to combat opioid abuse after it was named in the Ohio suit.The state of Ohio has sued five major drug manufacturers for their role in the opioid epidemic. In the lawsuit filed Wednesday, state Attorney General Mike DeWine alleges these five companies "helped unleash a health care crisis that has had far-reaching financial, social, and deadly consequences in the State of Ohio."Named in the suit are:By the late 1990s, DeWine's suit says, each of the five companies had embarked on a persuasion scheme targeting doctors, whom the state positions as victims of systematic misinformation:Asked by NPR's Robert Siegel whether doctors had a role of their own in overprescribing potentially dangerous medication, DeWine says more fault rests with a culture created by these companies."This was not something that the pharmaceutical companies just woke up some day and just started to do a little bit of it," he says."I mean, there was a concerted effort for an extended number of years to really pound this into the heads of doctors. And when you're told something time and time and time again and there's a lot of advertising that is being spent, yeah, it takes a while to turn that around.""Janssen has acted appropriately, responsibly and in the best interests of patients regarding our opioid pain medications, which are FDA-approved and carry FDA-mandated warnings about the known risks of the medications on every product label.""OxyContin accounts for less than 2 percent of the opioid analgesic prescription market nationally, but we are an industry leader in the development of abuse-deterrent technology, advocating for the use of prescription drug monitoring programs and supporting access to Naloxone — all important components for combating the opioid crisis."And that crisis shows few signs of ebbing soon.In his release Wednesday, DeWine says he filed the suit in Ross County for a reason: "Southern Ohio was likely the hardest hit area in the nation by the opioid epidemic."
Waad was one of the opposition groups that participated in a Sept. 2013 demonstration. Before a court ordered it to dissolve today, it was the only major opposition group still operating in the country.A court in Bahrain has ordered the country's last major opposition group to dissolve, amid a wider crackdown on freedom of expression.Bahrain's Ministry of Justice and Islamic Affairs filed a lawsuit weeks later, saying this "attitude" violated a law that called for "respect for the rule of law." It also took issue with the group's characterization of three men convicted of killing three police officers and then executed, as "martyrs."According to Amnesty International, the group has "repeatedly stated their opposition to violence and commitment to peaceful means and they have denied the charges."Last year, according to Reuters, the government's crackdown on dissent escalated "when authorities banned the main Shi'ite Muslim opposition group, al-Wefaq, and revoked the citizenship of Ayatollah Isa Qassim, the spiritual leader of Bahrain's Shi'ites, accusing him of fomenting sectarian divisions."
Jury selection began Wednesday in a defamation case over ABC News' 2012 reports on a South Dakota meat producer's lean, finely textured beef product, which critics dubbed "pink slime."In a South Dakota court room, ABC News will defend a series of stories it reported five years ago in a defamation law suit. Jury selection started Wednesday.It's a trial that could prove to be a measure of public attitudes toward the media.Back in 2012, ABC Correspondent Jim Avila reported on a practice of a South Dakota-based company called Beef Products, Inc.To lower the fat content of its ground beef, the company added something it called finely textured beef product, made from the trimmings of the cow – lean bits derived from muscle and connective tissue — after it was butchered.ABC News pointed out in its stories that the addition of "pink slime" was common and not unsafe to eat, but was not labelled on meat packages.What does the company, Beef Products, Inc., have to show to win a defamation judgment against ABC News?If what they're suing under is the agricultural disparagement law in South Dakota, they have to prove that ABC News said the beef product was unsafe to consume. If it's a common, garden-variety libel case, they have to prove that what was published about them was false. Moreover, they have to show that ABC News acted with what is called actual malice.Is the company bringing this action under both laws?It's suing under everything under the sun – product disparagement, interference with business operations and a variety of other claims.Can Beef Products, Inc. argue successfully that by being the only company that was described doing this — even though it was done by many other companies — that this constituted defamation in some way?One of the questions about the agricultural disparagement law is whether it deals with the company or with the product itself. BPI has claimed that essentially what ABC News has said is that the company was complicit in mislabeling or not labeling when [finely textured beef product] was included in beef that was sold to consumers in grocery stores.This case reminds me of Bismarck's line that people who want to savor either sausage or the law shouldn't watch the process of making either one. Making beef can look pretty ugly here. Is that essentially the essence of the lawsuit?ABC News actually did some reporting at BPI and showed what it characterized as a pristine plant with pristine processing. But the mere use of the phrase pink slime was something that captured the public imagination and I think, frankly, escalated the ick factor.This case comes to trial at a time when the so-called mainstream media, which would include ABC News, are routinely attacked for purveying fake news and the president of the United States complains about lax libel laws. Could this case possibly move the standard for defamation?It's only a trial decision at this point, so of course, it would have no precedential value. But I do think it's a bellwether in the sense that it raises two very critical issues. One is that BPI claims that ABC News was basically on a disinformation campaign, which is another way of saying fake news. The other goes at the heart of what the media are supposed to be doing, which is informing the public about things that might be matters of interest to them but which corporate America might not be interested in sharing with them. And I think that was ABC's justification for doing this story – simply to let people know that this substance was in their ground beef.NPR senior editor and Salt host Maria Godoy contributed to this report.
An artist's rendering of the newly named Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.It's a mission that's been in the works for nearly 60 years. NASA says it will launch a spacecraft in 2018 to "touch the sun," sending it closer to the star's surface than ever before.The spacecraft is small – its instruments would fit into a refrigerator — but it's built to withstand temperatures of more than 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit, all the while maintaining room temperature inside the probe."Even though the sun is so close to us, there's actually a lot about it we don't understand," says heat shield lead engineer Betsy Congdon from the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory.Scientists are hoping the data gathered might solve some of the big mysteries about the sun.First, what allows the sun to fling winds out at supersonic speeds? Understanding this will be important for protecting astronauts during space travel, Congdon says, and solar events can damage satellites and knock out power on Earth.Second, why is the sun's atmosphere actually hotter — 300 times hotter — than its surface? "That defies the laws of nature. It's like water flowing uphill. It shouldn't happen," mission project scientist Nicola Fox of the Johns Hopkins lab said at a news conference.The probe is expected to complete 24 orbits over the course of more than six years, looping closer to the sun and eventually hurtling toward it at a speed of 450,000 miles per hour. At that speed, you could travel from Philadelphia to Washington, D.C., in one second. Here's a map of the route:It's worth noting that the probe will not literally touch the sun's surface — the closest it will get is about 3.9 million miles away.But Congdon says that's actually very close. "If you think about a football field and the sun's sitting on one side and the Earth's sitting on the other, we're getting within the 5-yard line," she says. It's about seven times closer than any previous mission.The circuitous route involves careening closer to the sun and then back out to Venus, which means wild oscillations in temperature. Congdon says protecting the probe's scientific instruments from getting fried is "quite an engineering feat."It basically involves "putting up a big umbrella," she says. The shield is an 8-foot wide disc made of layers of carbon, which would get burnt to a charcoal crisp if it weren't for the fact that there's no oxygen in space.Today, NASA announced that it is naming the spacecraft after Eugene Parker, a retired physicist who predicted the existence of solar winds almost 60 years ago. He is about to turn 90, and this is the first time NASA has named a spacecraft after a researcher during their lifetime.Parker's ideas fundamentally changed the study of the sun.But at this point, Fox compared the state of the field with learning about weather by looking out the window."You can see the sun is shining, you can see the birds are singing. But until you actually go out, you have no idea quite how hot it is out there or how windy it is or what the conditions are like," Fox said."I really think we've come as far as we can with looking at things and it's now time to go up and pay it a visit."
Exxon Mobil Corp. shareholders have asked the energy giant to publicly disclose how the fight against climate change could affect the company's bottom line.It's a victory for environmental activists, who have been urging the oil company to consider the economic impact the Paris accord would have if it is fully implemented. The global agreement calls for more investment in renewable energy and for deep cuts in the greenhouse gas emissions that result from burning fossil fuels.The yearly reports "would include details on how the company would survive in the event that carbon-reducing policies lead to lower oil demand," Travis Bubenik of Houston Public Media reports. "Exxon Mobil supports the Paris deal — but opposed the shareholder effort, saying the company is tackling climate change in other ways."So how exactly is it a victory for environmentalists if Exxon Mobil is tallying up the economic impact of the Paris accord?"The goal is to make Exxon plan for a world where fossil fuels like oil and natural gas may be replaced by renewable energy from sunlight and wind." 'The real objective is to get the company to stop thinking about climate risk as a reputational risk or peripheral risk and to understand that it's actually a material risk to their core business,' said Shanna Cleveland, carbon asset risk director at CERES, a nonprofit focused on sustainability. ..."[She] said some companies they've approached — including Exxon — have said they don't believe the world is going to achieve the Paris Agreement goal to limit global average temperature rise to 'well below' 2 degrees Celsius. But she said the planning and self reflection required by the proposal would help the company prepare for the eventual decline in fossil fuel demand."The newspaper notes that Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil is the world's largest publicly traded energy company.I will be announcing my decision on the Paris Accord over the next few days. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!The vote comes as President Trump is expected to announce his decision on whether to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement.Exxon Mobil provides financial support to NPR.
Troizel Carr, "The Black Public," performed as part of EMERGENYC, New York City, 2017.On a sidewalk in the Village in downtown Manhattan, an African-American woman leans on her elbows and knees, wearing only black underpants. Scrawled in black marker all over her body are the words "Ain't I a Woman?"Across the street, another woman lies face down, sunbathing on a large sheet of tinfoil. The sentence "White Supremacy Is Terrorism" is inked across her white skin, which is turning pink under the hot sun.Nearby, a young, black man is kneeling. His body is wrapped in duct tape inscribed with the phrase "Black People Die in Public."Traffic rumbles by on Washington Place. Some pedestrians ignore the scenes and scurry on; others stop to take photos and ask, "What's going on?"The three sidewalk artists are part of EMERGENYC, or Emerge, a program at New York University's Hemispheric Institute of Performance and Politics that since 2008 has been training emerging artists whose work is a vehicle for social and political activism.Emerge co-director George Emilio Sánchez says this type of training is more relevant than ever."In the Trump era," he says, "it's critical to understand how do we speak to each other as people, as individuals. ... I think, politically, we need arts and artists to be more engaged in the process."The 20 students in this year's class are mostly in their twenties and thirties and come from all over the world. As Emerge's other co-director, Marlène Ramírez-Cancio, puts it, the 3-month program aims "to create a community of people ... who might not have exactly the same position on everything but can work together on larger battles."Emerge's activities are designed to help students create change through art, by sparking dialogue and bringing attention to the marginalized."My work represents the alienation that I experience as a black woman and mother daily," says Nicole Goodwin, the student who bared her breasts marked with the words "Ain't I a Woman?" — the title given to an 1851 speech by the African-American abolitionist Sojourner Truth."[The exercise] made me feel vulnerable but also empowered," says Goodwin, a 36-year-old poet, "because despite the fear I had, I continued with the piece, which allowed me to confront my helplessness, loneliness and fear of scrutiny."She says some passersby heckled her. But there were also women who "congratulated and celebrated my boldness," she adds, saying the activity taught her that challenging the status quo "is not only wanted by the public, it is necessary."This kind of exchange was the point of the group's sidewalk performances, called "public actions" — meant to interrupt a public space where people are often in a hurry or distracted."Public spaces open up an artist's communication and dialogue with more than the very narrow part of the population that feels comfortable going into a gallery, theater or museum," according to Ed Woodham, a multidisciplinary artist who led the activity. "You never know what will happen in a public space.""Theatre of the Oppressed"Some of the techniques used by Emerge are derived from "Theatre of the Oppressed," a form of political theater developed by Brazilian dramatist and activist Augusto Boal.In the 1960s, Boal began bringing audience members on stage to act out ways to address social problems. This participation, he felt, empowered people to bring about change, turning theater into grassroots activism.Boal's teachings were controversial, and in 1971 the military regime then ruling Brazil forced him into exile. Boal eventually returned to Brazil, where he established the Centre for the Theatre of the Oppressed. As a city council member in Rio de Janeiro, he organized events where residents participated in performances to share their needs and discuss new laws.In 2008 Boal was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for using theater as a tool for social activism. He died the following year. But his techniques have spread around the world, inspiring organizations, educators and activists to link art and activism."Who funds you?" he asked an actor playing a staff member at the shelter."It's several organizations...."she replied."OK," he says, "can I have a list of those organizations?"The audience applauded as he pushed for more answers."The events shift power dynamics and raise awareness about racism and other forms of oppression," according to the group's founder, Katy Rubin.While Theatre of the Oppressed techniques get spectators involved with actors, Sánchez uses them to get Emerge's participants to think and work together in class."Theatre of Oppressed sparks people's creativity and curiosity," says Sánchez, who studied under Boal in the early 1990s in New York. "You don't speak down to anyone. It brings people together. It also creates a space where you can learn to disagree, vehemently."Sometimes the activities cause a sense of unease. That's what David Sierra, a junior at Columbia University, felt during a "human sculpture" exercise in which Sánchez instructed a student to illustrate the word "sexism" by positioning the bodies of two classmates. A female student went into a handstand, and a male student stood behind her, holding her feet in the air. Then the class began discussing whether the arrangement depicted "sexism.""I feel a huge tension with the exercise," David, a gender non-conforming artist, told the other students gathered in a dance studio at NYU. "We're seeing a picture like that without knowing the context and interpreting a lot of identity politics from what we're seeing." The whole thing, David says, was uncomfortable.This discomfort, Sánchez explained to the class, was valid."It's difficult," he said, "but I invite you to be honest about the tension and difficulty."After the session, several participants said they welcomed the tension.Goodwin, a U.S. Army veteran who has published a book of poetry about coming of age during the Iraq war and after her return home, says the human sculpture and other Theatre of the Oppressed exercises have helped her feel comfortable with discomfort. "Having conversations due to race, class or gender ... brings up issues I was normally afraid to talk about in mixed company," she says. "I call it the art of being uncomfortable.""I want people to come together through my work and talk," she says. "We don't have to come to a solution."Emerge has 155 alumni, including award-winning playwrights, directors and university professors."Part of what Emerge teaches you is to get really creative about how you think about not only your identity but also the pressures we endure because of our differences," he says.Gamboa adds that Theatre of the Oppressed exercises reminded him to look for knowledge and experiences from everyday people instead of experts. He's now preparing a play based on stories collected from Mexican Americans about "growing up, surviving and thriving while being brown and down in Chicago."For Andre Dimapilis, a Filipino-American theater artist and drama teacher in New York, getting to know his diverse classmates in Emerge taught him to interact better with people who think differently from him. "[I learned to] come from a place of understanding so I can communicate with that person in a polite way," he says, "so coming from an open place of listening."Several participants say Emerge is inspiring them, especially as communities become more polarized. "We need to find ways outside of language to connect people," according to Elena Rose Light, a 26-year-old dancer from California. "We're so caught up in our vocabularies of difference." Light says she's exploring playful ways to blur the distinction between audience and performer through her dancing.Anooj Bhandari, a 25-year-old Indian-American actor and community organizer, says Emerge is helping him reflect on how to use art to help marginalized groups. "I want to create art that is about self-love," Bhandari says, "and what it means to consider the self worthy of anything it desires in a world that tells it otherwise."
A truck burns behind a man perched near a traffic barrier in Caracas, Venezuela, on Saturday. In more than 60 days of unrest, at least 60 people have died in violence related to protests against President Nicolas Maduro.In that time, the list of protesters' demands — from the resumption of local elections to an end to the nationwide food shortage to even the ouster of Maduro — has grown. And the death toll has mounted.Lately, the opposition's ire has affixed to a new target, one outside Venezuela's borders: Goldman Sachs Group Inc.In a statement, Goldman confirmed the purchase but not how much it paid. The bank said it did not buy the bonds directly from the Venezuelan government.An anti-government protester runs past a burning truck blocking the Francisco Fajardo Highway in Caracas on Saturday. The demonstrations across Venezuela are entering their third month.Julio Borges, leader of the opposition-heavy National Assembly, did not accept this explanation."It is apparent Goldman Sachs decided to make a quick buck off the suffering of the Venezuelan people," he added.Borges also promised "to recommend to any future democratic government of Venezuela not to recognize or pay on these bonds," which he says were bought at a 69 percent discount.On Tuesday, Reuters reports, the National Assembly voted to request that the U.S. investigate the deal, and protesters gathered outside Goldman Sachs' headquarters in New York City.Meanwhile, in Venezuela's city streets, violence between riot police and protesters has shown no sign of relenting.Another opposition leader, Henrique Capriles, alleged that he and his entourage were "ambushed" and beaten by the Venezuelan National Guard at a protest in the capital, Caracas." 'I was practically choking [from the tear gas] ... when a National Guard team ambushed us,' he said, showing photos of the injuries some of his supporters had suffered." 'They took all of their gas masks and their helmets,' Mr. Capriles said." 'I asked them "what is wrong with you?" and their answer was to hit me with a helmet in the face.' "Maduro continues to maintain that the protests are driven by coup-minded opposition leaders and outside powers — foremost the U.S. — seeking to undermine his government.Many of those foreign leaders, for their part, plan to meet Wednesday to discuss a possible way forward in negotiating with Maduro's government. The Organization of American States is gathering foreign ministers from Western Hemisphere countries to "establish a mandate for new diplomatic engagement," according to a senior U.S. State Department official."What is happening there in Venezuela today, the people need to recognize — and in fact, I think it's quite clear now that they do — the common Venezuelan citizen recognizes that they are not alone," the official says, "that the hemisphere is in solidarity with them, that the hemisphere is supportive of their just calls for democracy."
A Baton Rouge police officer kneels at the casket of Cpl. Montrell Jackson, one of three officers ambushed and killed by a gunman July 17, 2016.A surveillance camera image showing the gunman who shot three Baton Rouge police officers, killing three, last year.Three lawmen were killed and three others were wounded on July 17, 2016, near a convenience store close to police headquarters. It happened less than two weeks after Baton Rouge had erupted in protests after the fatal shooting of Alton Sterling, a black man killed in a struggle with police. The events had Baton Rouge on edge, with emotions raw.The report includes video and still images of the shooter, 29-year-old Gavin Long, an Iraqi war veteran from Missouri. He's dressed in all black with a hood and face mask, armed with a rifle over his shoulder. The video shows him shooting officers in a 13-minute ordeal that ended when Long was killed in a gunfight with a special response team.The fallen officers were Sheriff's Deputy Brad Garafola, and Baton Rouge policemen Montrell Jackson and Matthew Lane Gerald.The nearly year-long investigation by local, state and federal officials concludes that Long was killed "in the course and scope of their employment as law enforcement officers and under circumstances where their use of deadly force was legally justified."Investigators report that the gunman who killed three Baton Rouge officers last year used this semi-automatic rifle."He had angst and animus against police officers whether good or bad," says Moore, describing the letter. "He says he understands he may have to kill even good officers – that good officers may have to die because [of] bad officers."Investigators say Long had searched online for the home addresses of Baton Rouge policemen involved in the fatal shooting of Sterling. He had posted online video calling for bloodshed in response to police-involved killings before coming to Baton Rouge on July 12.Moore says investigators found no evidence that Long had any support from anyone in Baton Rouge.
More than a dozen states said Friday that they would not, or could not, give a White House commission looking into voter fraud detailed voter registration data as requested.The mass noncompliance elicited this from President Trump on Saturday:Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL. What are they trying to hide?Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, seen earlier this month, says he is among the state officials who isn't able to provide all the voter identification details the national commission he vice-chairs is seeking.The letter asks each state to send the panel all publicly available voter registration information by July 14, including the names, addresses, birth dates, partial Social Security numbers, party affiliation, felon status and other data for every registered voter in the country.Several states said they would not comply because of concerns about the panel's motives and how the information would be used.They can go jump in the Gulf of Mexico and Mississippi is a great State to launch from.Mississippi Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann"I'm not going to risk sensitive information for 3.2 million Kentuckians getting in the wrong hands, into the public domain and possibly for the wrong reasons, to keep people away from the ballot box," she told Shapiro.Grimes and other Democrats say they worry that the commission's findings will be used to legitimize efforts by Kobach and others to enact strict ID and other voter requirements around the country.Kobach said the panel would like to compare the state rolls against federal Social Security Administration and citizenship databases to see if there are those on the rolls who have died or are noncitizens and whether anyone voted in their names."We have lots of people making claims on both sides about fraudulent voting in the name of dead people," he said. "Well, let's just use the federal databases and find out how big a problem it is."Many experts say the problem with comparing such databases is that it often leads to mismatches because of inaccuracies or differences in how names are listed. Some voting rights groups worry that it could lead to legitimate voters being purged from the rolls, even though Kobach noted that the federal panel would have no authority to do that.In his statement announcing refusal to comply with the request, California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, noted that Kobach has a history of pushing tough voter requirements, which opponents say can hurt minority voters. "His role as vice chair is proof that the ultimate goal of the commission is to enact policies that will result in the disenfranchisement of American citizens," Padilla said.Kobach said he found such arguments "bizarre." He acknowledged, however, that the panel does not have the authority to force states to comply with the request. "It's simply an ask," he told NPR.While the strongest opposition has come from Democrats so far, several Republican secretaries of state, including Tennessee's Tre Hargett, said they would be unable to comply because of state restrictions on sharing sensitive data. "Tennessee state law does not allow my office to release the voter information requested to the federal commission," Hargett said in a statement.Mississippi Secretary of State Delbert Hosemann, also a Republican, said he had yet to receive the commission's request but that his reply to such a request would be: "They can go jump in the Gulf of Mexico and Mississippi is a great State to launch from." He cited the need to protect the privacy of state citizens "by conducting our own electoral processes."One of the Democratic members of the commission, Maine Secretary of State Matt Dunlap, said he was reviewing Kobach's request to see whether the state can comply. Under Maine law, recipients of state voter data are not allowed to share the information or make it public, but Kobach's letter says anything sent to the White House panel will be available to the public.
The White House senior staff is sworn in at the White House in January. Twenty-two members of the staff will make $179,700 this year and 18 more earn $165,000 a year, making the Trump administration's payroll top-heavy compared to the Obama administration.Chief strategist Steve Bannon and chief of staff Reince Priebus will both make $179,700 this year for their work at the White House, but they aren't the only ones.Loading...This staff size may be an indication that Trump prefers a lean headquarters staff at the White House as he did with his campaign. But David Cohen, a professor at the University of Akron whose specialty includes White House staffing, says this is a sign the Trump administration is "having a hard time attracting talent to the staff."With a scaled-down staff, Cohen said, "it can run. It's running right now, but it's not running particularly well."With fewer people to carry the load, Cohen added, already difficult and stressful jobs get harder."You have new levels of stress that few White House staff have ever had to deal with," said Cohen.Press secretary Sean Spicer said in an email that the lean staffing was the result of the new administration "trying to give taxpayers the best return" — something the White House is endeavoring to do "throughout all government." Spicer also noted "there is a huge demand for jobs" in the administration.Helping to contain costs are the three advisers taking no pay at all: the president's daughter, Ivanka Trump; her husband, Jared Kushner; and Reed Cordish, who works on intergovernmental and technology initiatives with Kushner. Gary Cohn who came to the White House from a top job at Goldman Sachs is taking a salary of just $30,000 a year. (That amount, Spicer told NPR, is the minimum that qualifies for benefits.)As for the people at the top of the pay scale making $179,700, there are several names that will look familiar:One person makes more: Mark House, who is on loan from the FAA working on a short-term project, is set to make $187,100 this year.Sarah Sanders, the principal deputy press secretary who recently has been conducting most of the White House press briefings, earns $165,000 a year as does Keith Schiller, the director of Oval Office operations who was Trump's longtime bodyguard, and Peter Navarro, director of the president's National Trade Council.The median Trump White House office salary is $89,000 compared to a median salary the final year of the Obama administration of $73,051.
President Donald Trump and his daughter Ivanka flank Chibok schoolgirls (left to right) Joy Bishara and Lydia Pogu. At far left is Doug Wead, president of the school the girls attend, and his wife, Myriam. Two of his daughters are at the right. This White House "Photo of the Day" was taken on June 27.The White House usually picks a photo of the day. On June 28, the image they chose showed two girls from Nigeria who were abducted in 2014 by Boko Haram but managed to escape: Joy Bishara and Lydia Pogu. They're flanked by President Donald Trump and his daughter, Ivanka Trump. The photo had been taken the day before.Trump is giving a thumbs up.The meeting was not publicized in advance. NPR's White House correspondent Tamara Keith says the administration didn't notify the press corps about it, it didn't appear on the White House daily schedule and it was not discussed in any of that day's briefings.How did these two girls get to the White House? Doug Wead, who is also in the photo, was the point of contact.Wead asked her if she wanted to meet the girls because of her concern about human trafficking. She said "absolutely," Wead says.Wead said the girls had some issues they wanted to discuss privately with the president, but neither he nor the girls would share details about what was said during the ten-minute meeting. Bishara did note that Ivanka hugged her and the President Trump smiled and said, 'God bless you, too."And she and Pogu got a White House tour."I enjoyed [the visit], it was wonderful," she says. "Her [Ivanka's] work is a really good one, at least she's helping people around the world who have been hurt," Bishara says.She hopes the visit to the White House will raise awareness about the 113 Chibok girls in Nigeria still held captive by Boko Haram.The Chibok kidnappings drew international attention and sparked the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls. Former first lady Michelle Obama backed the campaign.At the academy, Pogu and Bishara "would study nonstop," says the school's CEO, Corinne Burkhert.Pogu struggled to sleep at times because of "bad dreams" she says.The girls are temporarily staying in Haymarket, Va., with Doug Wead. They say he's like a father to them.Canyonville Christian Academy currently manages the girls' fundraising account and states that all donations "in their entirety" will go to the girls.
A grizzly bear roams near Beaver Lake in Yellowstone National Park, Wyo., in 2011.Advocates for Yellowstone National Park's grizzly bears filed notice Friday that they're prepared to sue to reverse the bears' recent removal from the endangered species list.Grizzlies have been protected under the Endangered Species Act since 1975, when only 136 of them lived in the Yellowstone region, The Associated Press reports.The U.S. Department of the Interior announced last week that the park's population of about 700 of the iconic carnivores would no longer receive federal protections.AP says the Northern Cheyenne Tribe, Center for Biological Diversity, The Humane Society of the United States and WildEarth Guardians are among the groups that have filed a 60-day notice of intent to block the move by suing the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. That step is required under the Endangered Species Act and is intended to give the agency a chance to address the groups' concerns before they file a lawsuit.WildEarth Guardians said in a statement the delisting decision "prematurely removes vital federal safeguards from one of the nation's most cherished species ... handing over the bears' fate to Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho—each of which plans to permit grizzly trophy hunting."Pro-hunting groups have advocated for the delisting, which effectively allows hunting of the bear. Sportsmen's Alliance President and CEO Evan Heusinkveld called the move to remove the endangered species act protections "one of the greatest conservation stories in North America.""The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem population of grizzly bears has surpassed recovery goals in both population benchmarks and duration of time meeting those goals, proving that the population is not just recovered, but stable and growing."Moreover, more than 100 grizzly bears have been killed for depredation of livestock or attacks on humans in the last two years – a significant number indicative of the population having reached social tolerance levels within the available habitat."
A June ad for campsites in the small town of Madras, Ore., anticipates the influx of tourists expected in the prime viewing location for the Aug. 21 total solar eclipse.The mayor of Hopkinsville, Ky., says his town has spent more than half a million dollars preparing for the event since learning 10 years ago that the area would be in the path of totality.The town even has an eclipse coordinator."It'll look like twilight outside. You'll be able to see stars. Four planets will be visible — Venus, Jupiter, Mars and Mercury. You'll notice the temperature drop about 5 to 10 degrees," the coordinator, Brooke Jung, told the AP. "You'll notice that animals will get a little disoriented. Birds will think that it's nighttime and go in to roost. Some of the flowers and plants that close up at night will close up.""If it's cloudy, then we'll just have to deal with that reality as best we can and help people get to other locations," Mayor Carter Hendricks told the AP. "But, if somehow we overprepare and we're underwhelmed by the crowd size, that's a big concern for me."A map of the United States shows where and how much of the eclipse will be visible, including path of totality from Oregon to South Carolina."We don't want to give up our house," he told the newspaper, "but everybody's got a number."Oregon will be a major hot spot for eclipse watchers. Viewers there will experience the total eclipse first, with Salem and Corvallis in the path of totality at 10:18 a.m. PT.Like South Carolina, the state is bracing for a massive influx of visitors. Up to a million people are expected to travel to Oregon for the event, the AP reports, and the area around the small town of Madras is expected to draw 100,000 people — with the potential for out-of-this-world traffic jams."Bring extra water, bring food. You need to be prepared to be able to survive on your own for 24 to 48 to 72 hours, just like you would in any sort of emergency," Dave Thompson, spokesman for the Oregon Department of Transportation, told news service. "This is pretty much a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and it's really worth seeing. But you've got to be prepared or you won't enjoy it."Authorities in the state worry that if it gets foggy, people will decide to head east at the last moment, creating chaos on the roads.As a result, people without reservations may start showing up at the state's nonreservable campgrounds two weeks early, the paper reports:" 'Don't just assume that your favorite spot is available,' Traci Weaver, a fire communications specialist for the forest service and [Bureau of Land Management], said. 'Don't just have a plan, but have a plan A, B, C and D.'"Weaver said her worst case scenario is campers losing patience and getting into verbal or physical altercations over campsites — a situation that could be exacerbated by the August heat. Unprepared travelers are also a concern, especially considering most of the non-reservable campgrounds are remote, and often don't provide drinking water or toilets. ..." 'I keep hoping this will be like Y2K,' [BLM district manager Don] Gonzalez said — a big bust after months of concern. 'We want everybody to get along ... just enjoy your federal lands.' "But, it adds, "we obviously can't guarantee the weather, and no refunds or exchanges will be possible under any conditions.""We had to manage this from a safety standpoint," she said. "The people were coming. We couldn't stop them."
Clara Hardy (middle) with her parents, Robert and Chrissy. Clara, who lives in North Carolina, needed expensive surgery and other procedures right after birth to save her life. The family's insurance policy paid most of the cost.Sitting next to her mom, Chrissy Hardy, Clara reads from a book, made of construction paper, that she wrote and illustrated in crayon. "On day eight, the surgeons cut me open," Clara reads. "Everything that was in my chest got moved back to my belly. They put a patch to fix the hole in my diaphragm.""We were told more than once she would not survive," her mother adds.But after many procedures that Chrissy estimates cost more than $1 million, she finally got to cradle her baby."She was born two months before I turned 30," Chrissy says, "and I held her the day before my 30th birthday."At the time, the whole family had health insurance through Chrissy's job as a public school teacher. So their out-of-pocket medical costs were just $10,000.Hospitalization, emergency services and prescription drugs are just some of the 10 benefits that Clara needed — and might need again.The details of how any change in the federal health law rules would play out in various states and in each health policy are still murky; the GOP Senate bill is still in draft form, and a lot will be left up to the state. But Clara's dad, Robert Hardy, is worried."I don't really know what the limit would be, but there is probably a good chance that she's hit it," he says."If you are an employer with 150 employees — so you are buying large group market coverage, and you are entirely in Pennsylvania — you can choose Mississippi's definition of essential health benefits for the purposes of the lifetime limit provision," Fiedler explains.While many businesses offer insurance to keep good employees, some may cut costs by offering policies with fewer benefits. And people who buy insurance plans from the exchanges would likely be limited to what their state of residence is willing to cover, says Fiedler."If a benefit were no longer [an] essential health benefit, you would probably not have plans that would offer that type of coverage without an annual or lifetime limit," he says. "People would just have no place to go."That means the GOP bill, if passed, could effectively gut protection for pre-existing conditions. If a state can let an insurer opt out of offering prescription drug coverage, for example, people who require medications would probably be paying more to have them covered.The Hardys now get their health insurance through the North Carolina exchange — they were able to get it despite Clara's past health problems. Worries about how the cost could climb, if the GOP bill becomes law, keeps her dad up at night."I would like to be able to be in a situation where I knew I didn't have to worry if I was going to have to face a decision to bet my financial security against my child's health," Robert Hardy says.As Clara reads her book, she lifts her pink shirt a little, to reveal a scar that cuts diagonally across her entire stomach."My scar on my tummy makes me proud," she reads. "It is a reminder that I am tough and I can do hard things."
Emergency personnel converge on Bronx-Lebanon Hospital in New York, after a gunman opened fire there on Friday.Updated at 8 p.m. ETA gunman opened fire at a New York City area hospital on Friday, killing one person and injuring six others before killing himself, according New York Police Commissioner James O'Neill.In a brief news conference, O'Neill said the shooter was a former employee of the hospital but did not identify him. A law enforcement source tells NPR that the man was Dr. Henry Bello.Mayor Bill de Blasio said the attack apparently stemmed from a workplace-related matter but didn't elaborate.The gunfire reportedly broke out at about 2:50 p.m. ET at the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. O'Neill said police received a 911 call about a shooter on the 16th floor of the hospital. The victims were found on the 16th and 17th floors.The shooter was found on the 17th floor with an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, wearing a white medical lab coat. A rifle was found nearby. The hospital fire alarm system had been activated, O'Neill said, after the gunman attempted to set himself on fire.A female victim was found dead nearby on the 17th floor. Five other people were injured on the 16th floor and were in serious condition. Another victim was being treated for a gunshot wound to the leg.This is a breaking news story. As often happens in situations like these, some information reported earlier may turn out to be inaccurate. We'll move quickly to correct the record, and we'll only point to the best information we have at the time.
Cash machines in a supermarket in Kiev weren't working on Wednesday after a cyberattack paralyzed computers in Ukraine and elsewhere. Victims included government offices, energy companies, banks and gas stations.But security experts say this attack was different.Suiche says the perpetrator wanted to disguise the intent of the attack. "We believe the ransomware was in fact a lure to control the media narrative," Suiche writes, "... to attract the attention on some mysterious hacker group rather than a national state attacker like we have seen in the past in cases that involved wipers such as Shamoon."The news agency says security researchers believe one goal of the attack was to put malware onto computers in government and commercial offices in Ukraine, perhaps in preparation for future sabotage.Experts believe the attackers would have known they could get in through the update, the newspaper adds.The attack paralyzed thousands of computers, shut down ports, factories and offices and spread to about 60 countries, Reuters says.A second cyber attack hit Ukrainian's state power distributor, Ukrenergo, on Thursday, but didn't affect the nation's power network, according to the news service.Danish shipping giant A.P. Maersk-Moller was hit hard by the spread of the malware this week, but said Friday its operations are almost back to normal, The Associated Press reports.As for those still wondering if they should pay the ransom to restore their computers, Suiche notes, "The payment email address isn't accessible anymore if victims would happen to send payments."
Babies exposed to opioids in utero may experience withdrawal symptoms at birth, but these symptoms are treatable. Typically, the babies can go home after a few days or a couple weeks.Among the troubling developments of the nation's opioid crisis: a large number of babies born prenatally exposed to opioids.This interview has been edited for length and clarity.What exactly is neonatal abstinence syndrome?It's a collection of symptoms that babies can have as they're essentially withdrawing from the opioids that they were exposed to in utero. Those symptoms can include tremors, increased muscle tone, excessive sucking [and] poor feeding. You treat that with an opioid that is slowly weaned off. There's a scoring sheet, and based on that scoring sheet, either the doses increase or decrease, and within a few days to a couple weeks, the baby is ready to go home.Too often, we think about this as just the baby. We need to pan out a little bit and think about the family. It's really the home they go into that's more important than the short duration of withdrawal symptoms.So you see it as more of a social problem than a chemical one?Right. When it reflects an addiction and out-of-control home life — that's the problem. The reason to put it that way is when we think of solutions, the solutions are to help the mom out of her addiction, to get her into effective treatment. When you do that, then the prospects for the child really improve.A number of babies are born with neonatal abstinence syndrome because the moms are in effective treatment — treatment that can include methadone or buprenorphine, otherwise known as Suboxone. That's what we want the moms to be doing. When those moms give birth, they are incredibly often devoted parents, and the kids really can have a great start to life.That's exactly right. What you sometimes see is you'd have a mother who got methadone during pregnancy [and] was actually finally starting to put the pieces of her life back together. Then when the baby comes out a little jittery with the symptoms, she's made to feel horrible. And then what happens is she goes, "Well, I'm coming off [the methadone]." And the next thing you know, she's relapsed. Social services gets involved. She loses custody of the baby. The baby is off to a terrible start in life. That's just a terrible outcome.We have to be able to see this issue of neonatal abstinence syndrome in a little more complexity to be able to prevent those bad outcomes.You say we can learn from the "crack babies" era of the 1990s. We certainly should learn the lessons of what I would call the "crack baby panic." There were magazine covers, newspaper stories [about] what was happening to the brains of these babies. Would they be permanently scarred?The long-term evidence is it really doesn't look like there's much of anything from cocaine in terms of chemical impact on the brain. The real harm is if the baby is going home into an environment that's unsafe, there are all kinds of problems.For crack babies, people sort of saw the mom as the enemy. The baby was viewed as separate from the mom. The mom could get punished, and when that happened, the baby wound up doing worse. There is nothing more important for the baby than that the mom is healthy.Is that also true for fetal alcohol syndrome?I wouldn't say the same thing for [fetal alcohol syndrome]. I think also when it comes to smoking, there is stronger evidence of the impact on children, although it's really both [the substance and the social aspects.] It's not one or the other there. It's really both, and the evidence is stronger for those substances.Do you say of the newborn who does experience neonatal abstinence syndrome, whose body is experiencing a lack of opioids — is that baby addicted to opioids?Absolutely not. The baby is not addicted. Addiction requires continued and deliberate use despite harm. That's not the case with these babies. They're experiencing a temporary set of withdrawal symptoms.Anyone who takes opioids for a period of time, whether it's for cancer pain or you broke your leg — after a while, you're going to get tolerant to the medicine. When you come off, you'll have a few withdrawal symptoms. So a baby is more akin to a patient with who broke their leg than to someone who's actually addicted. There's really no comparison.
Christopher Msando, an elections official crucial to running Kenya's presidential vote next week, was found tortured and killed, officials said Monday.The man in charge of Kenya's electronic voting system was found dead days before citizens will cast their ballots for president on Aug. 8."This is a brutal murder of our employee and we are demanding to know who killed him and why," Chebukati said outside the Nairobi's City Mortuary where Msando's body was taken. "We are demanding government provide security to all IEBC staff."Msando had been in charge of doing a test run of the voting technology on Monday. That test run has been postponed.Incumbent President Uhuru Kenyatta is locked in a tight race with Raila Odinga.The United States and the United Kingdom have offered assistance in the murder investigation.Chebukati said the IEBC will carry on Msando's work.His death was announced one day after police killed an armed intruder at the home of Kenya's vice president following a near daylong siege.And analysts are warning more violence could be coming, reports AP.
On Monday the Chicago Cubs gave a 2016 World Series championship ring to Steve Bartman, a fan blamed for a team loss in 2003.A year after the Chicago Cubs won their first World Series title in more than a century, a long-suffering fan is getting another reward.Steve Bartman was handed a personalized 2016 World Series ring, after being blamed for costing the team the title 13 years earlier.It began with a simple gesture, perhaps an instinctive one on Oct. 14, 2003. The Cubs were ahead, 3-0, in Game 6 of the National League Championship Series against the Marlins in the eighth inning. A foul ball headed Bartman's way. He — and other fans — reached out for it, but it was Bartman who deflected it from the outstretched mitt of left fielder Moises Alou.Watch the move in the video below.The Marlins wound up scoring eight runs in the remainder of the inning. They won the game, then the series."We hope this provides closure on an unfortunate chapter of the story that has perpetuated throughout our quest to win a long-awaited World Series," the team said in a statement. "While no gesture can fully lift the public burden he has endured for more than a decade, we felt it was important Steve knows he has been and continues to be fully embraced by this organization."And now Bartman has spoken out. "Although I do not consider myself worthy of such an honor, I am deeply moved and sincerely grateful to receive an official Chicago Cubs 2016 World Series Championship ring," he said in a statement. "I am fully aware of the historical significance and appreciate the symbolism the ring represents on multiple levels."The reaction on Twitter appeared to be mostly positive, with fans applauding the move."I am happy to be reunited with the Cubs family and positively moving forward with my life," Bartman said.
HBO says it has been hacked, and that the perpetrators have acquired some programming.NPR's Eric Deggans reports:" HBO is so secretive about spoilers involving its hit series Game of Thrones, journalists weren't even given advance copies of new episodes before the new season began July 16."Now HBO has acknowledged that a 'cyber incident' resulted in stolen proprietary information, including some programming. ... HBO says it is working with law enforcement and cybersecurity firms to investigate the breach.""Hacking Hollywood can have significant repercussions," The Associated Press notes. "Sony struggled in the aftermath of its huge hack in 2014, which leaked employee emails as well as films."
While the number of Asian-American lawyers and law students increased greatly in recent decades, there are still few Asian-American lawyers in top positions in the legal field.In 1872, 13-year-old Hong Yen Chang came to the U.S. to be groomed as a diplomat. He earned degrees from Yale University and Columbia University's law school, and passed the bar exam.He became the first Chinese-American lawyer in the U.S. in 1888, when he was admitted to the New York bar. But not all states were as welcoming. When Chang applied for a California law license in 1892, the state's Supreme Court denied his application citing bar association rules, which precluded noncitizens from joining. Chang was unable to become a citizen because of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882.More than a century later, Chang's descendants petitioned for their relative to be granted posthumous bar admission and brought the case before the California Supreme Court."That case got me thinking about the fact that Asian-Americans have been formally excluded from the legal profession as Chang was, and of course, [with] all the informal barriers," says California Supreme Court justice Goodwin Liu, who reviewed the case. He said he realized he hadn't seen a comprehensive study of how Asian-Americans came into the legal profession — so he took it upon himself to lead one.In the study, Liu shows that though Asian-Americans are the fastest-growing minority group in the legal field, there's still a stark lack of Asian-American lawyers in top positions in this country.In 2015, 10 percent of graduates at the top-30 law schools were Asian-American, according to the study. Yet they only comprised about 6 percent of federal law clerks and 4 percent of state law clerks. Compare that to white students, and you'll see a striking contrast: 58 percent of students from top-30 schools were white, but still landed 82 percent of all federal clerkships and 80 percent of all state clerkships.Liu and his co-researchers also found that while Asian-Americans comprise 5 percent of lawyers in the U.S. and 7 percent of law students, only 3 percent of federal judges are Asian-American, and three out of 94 U.S. Attorneys last year were Asian-American.The study noted that some obstacles Asian-Americans face include a lack of access to mentors, as well as stereotypes of Asians as being unable to assimilate or socially awkward."Whereas Asian Americans are regarded as having the 'hard skills' required for lawyerly competence, they are regarded as lacking many important 'soft skills,' " the researchers wrote.The study also pointed out that there's a dearth of Asian-American lawyers in public service roles:"It is notable that few Asian Americans appear motivated to pursue law in order to gain a pathway into government or politics. ... Greater penetration into these public leadership roles is critical if the increasing number of Asian American attorneys is to translate into increasing influence of Asian Americans in the legal profession and throughout society. A major challenge is to encourage Asian American lawyers to pursue public service roles and to eliminate barriers for those who do."When asked to break out the data further by ethnicity, Xiaonan Hu, one of the researchers, told NPR that she noticed Filipino-American and Indian-American respondents were more likely to say they enrolled in law school to work in government or politics than, say, Japanese-American or Korean-American respondents. Two percent of respondents who were Japanese-American and 3 percent of Korean-Americans ranked the entry into government or politics as a top motivator for going to law school, compared to 11 percent of Filipino-Americans and 5 percent of Indian-Americans.So what could account for this?"It doesn't seem like it's as much about those groups [being] MORE interested in government and politics, but less averse to it," Karthick Ramakrishnan, a professor of political science at the University of California, Riverside, wrote in an email."Indian Americans, by comparison, are much more recently arrived in the United States (with their population booming in the last 2 decades). That normally would mean that we would not expect them to be involved in politics. But, past research indicates that prior experience with democracy and high English proficiency tend to mean greater political participation."And while there are rampant structural issues that need to be addressed, Chris Kang, former National Director of the National Council of Asian Pacific Americans, said that emphasizing role models can sometimes be powerful.When Kang was working with the Obama administration as Pres. Obama's Deputy Counsel, he helped appoint federal judges. Kang said he and his team tried to highlight each new justice's ethnicity and gender."It wasn't just, 'the first Asian-American judge in the district,' but we really went and highlighted 'the first Vietnamese-American, the first Filipino-American,' " Kang told NPR."If there's someone of your particular ethnicity — or an Asian-American woman, [where there's] only been two to the federal bench before — seeing now a dozen of them starts to make a difference," Kang said, "and you start to think as you're going into law school or you're a lawyer considering what's next for you, that a judgeship might be possible."
Google CEO Sundar Pichai delivers the keynote address at the Google I/O 2017 Conference at Shoreline Amphitheater on May 17 in Mountain View, Calif. Google's new tool for tracking how online ads connect to in-person sales has been criticized by a privacy watchdog group.A privacy watchdog group has filed a complaint with the FTC over Google's system for tracking purchases Internet users make in person, at physical store locations.The Electronic Privacy Information Center is concerned that Google's methods, the details of which are not public, may not sufficiently safeguard users' privacy. The center, also known as EPIC, is asking the Federal Trade Commission to investigate."Google claims that they don't know who the users are, that they are being de-identified," says Marc Rotenberg, the president of EPIC. "We want the FTC to take a closer look."'Store Sales Measurement'Google is both a search behemoth and an online advertising powerhouse, and it takes advantage of its vast collection of data to create detailed ad metrics. For several years, the company has been using location data on phones to track store visits — for example, to see how many people clicked on a PetSmart ad and then visited their local PetSmart.That data gets cross-referenced with information Google already has, to connect user accounts to in-person purchases. Aggregated data showing the relationship between Google ads and purchases is then delivered to advertisers."Google executives say they are using complex, patent-pending mathematical formulas to protect the privacy of consumers ... The mathematical formulas convert people's names and other purchase information, including the time stamp, location, and the amount of the purchase, into anonymous strings of numbers. The formulas make it impossible for Google to know the identity of the real-world shoppers, and for the retailers to know the identities of Google's users, said company executives, who called the process 'double-blind' encryption."Rotenberg says that Google has never identified who its third-party partners are, "what data is acquired or what steps they are taking to de-identify that data." Without those details, he says, there's good reason to be skeptical of the company's claims of anonymity.Rotenberg says that if Google's anonymizing practices are as robust as they say, that likely alleviate EPIC's privacy concerns. But without an independent investigation, he says, it's impossible to evaluate Google's claims that the process is fully anonymous.EPIC also complains that the opt-out process is "opaque and misleading," with most users not realizing that they'd need to opt out of such a system.Google tells NPR the store sales measurement product is currently in beta and only in the United States for certain advertisers.
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro celebrates the results of Sunday's referendum to elect members of his constituent assembly. For this "fundamental assault on the freedoms of the Venezuelan people," the U.S. Treasury announced sanctions on Maduro on Monday.Just one day after a nationwide vote to consolidate Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's hold on power, the U.S. Treasury Department has leveled a new round of sanctions against the regime — this time against Maduro himself.Maduro's "recent actions, culminating in yesterday's outrageous seizure of absolute power through the sham election of the national constituent assembly, represent a very serious blow to democracy in our hemisphere," National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster said at a White House briefing Monday. "Maduro is not just a bad leader. He is now a dictator."Venezuela has been riven by unrest since the country's Supreme Court, which is packed with Maduro supporters, attempted to dissolve the legislature in late March — and quickly reversed itself just days later after international backlash. In the months that followed, more than 120 people have died in clashes between Maduro's security forces and protesters, who have demanded the resumption of indefinitely delayed elections.At least 10 people were killed around the country on Sunday alone.At the briefing Monday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin would not comment on whether Maduro has any assets in the U.S. Still, he did note that "all options are on the table" going forward."Our objective is not to do anything that hurts the people of Venezuela," he said, "but let me just say, we will continue to monitor all of our specific options."
Hobby Lobby agreed earlier this month to a forfeiture of smuggled artifacts.NPR has learned the reason for the early Sunday morning arrests: Israel's Antiquities Authority says the dealers were involved in sales of antiquities — including items that U.S. authorities determined were smuggled — to Hobby Lobby, the national U.S. arts and crafts chain.The arrests could have a chilling effect on Jerusalem's storied antiquities market, making it harder for pilgrims, tourists and high-end collectors to legally own a piece of history from the land of the Bible.Police say the dealers' total antiquities sales to Hobby Lobby president Steve Green took place from 2010 to 2014 and added up to some $20 million.Cuneiform tablets that likely originated in Iraq were smuggled into the U.S. and shipped to Hobby Lobby. The labels on the packages "falsely described cuneiform tablets as tile 'samples,'" according to the Justice Department.On Sunday, Israeli police and tax authorities issued a statement saying the dealers provided fictitious invoices for the sales and an American allegedly used the invoices to receive large-scale tax breaks — and paid dealers kickbacks in return. They declined to name the American.But later in the day, in a court hearing, Israeli police said the arrested Jerusalem antiquities dealers are suspected of tax evasion for failing to report the $20 million in earnings to Israel's tax authority — and are also suspected of money laundering for an alleged scheme in which fictitious receipts and invoices were issued for antiquities sold to Green.A spokesperson for the Hobby Lobby and lawyers for the dealers have not yet responded to NPR's request for comment. The United States Attorney's Office in the Department of Justice declined comment.Israel is the only country in the Middle East that has a legal antiquities trade for export, allowing the sale of items not deemed to be exceedingly rare — like 2,000-year-old coins from the time of Jesus, ancient oil lamps and Roman glass vessels.Authorities arrested five Palestinian antiquities dealers in Jerusalem and confiscated more than $200,000 in cash as well as items dating back thousands of years.But Israel's Antiquities Authority has been tightening its regulation of licensed antiquities sellers in recent years to prevent trafficking of looted objects, and Sunday's arrests appear to up the ante.The arrested dealers, Palestinian residents of Jerusalem, come from some of the most important pillars of Jerusalem's antiquities market. The suspects, according to a court document, include a scion of the Baidun family, a dominant figure in the market trading in ancient artifacts for some 80 years. Other suspects are from the Hroub and Barakat families, also giants in the local market.The arrests send a clear message to Israel's antiquities dealers, who are licensed by the government, that they will be closely monitored, Hendin says. The message from the authorities, he says, amounts to this: "We're not only going after you for the antiquities. We are watching your checkbooks. We are going to go after you guys, where you work and where you live."Papyrus fragments confiscated from Palestinian antiquities dealers.According to U.S. law enforcement, in July 2010, Hobby Lobby president Steve Green inspected more than 5,548 artifacts for sale in the United Arab Emirates. Three antiquities dealers — two identified as Israeli, the other from the United Arab Emirates — were present as Green looked at tablets with ancient Mesopotamian writing, clay seal imprints and other items.One Israeli dealer provided a statement to Green saying the dealer's father legally acquired the artifacts in the late 1960s. An expert warned Hobby Lobby against the purchase of artifacts likely from Iraq, saying that hundreds of thousands of artifacts have been looted from Iraq since the 1990s.With Sunday's arrests, Israeli authorities are shining a spotlight on the murky Middle Eastern antiquities trade, which the Hobby Lobby owners have depended on for their collections.Last year, the Antiquities Authority says, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security contacted Israeli authorities and provided them with information on Hobby Lobby's purchase of antiquities from Israeli-licensed dealers, including evidence of money transfers.One of the objects seized during Sunday's arrest of antiquities dealers in Jerusalem. Israel's Antiquities Authority has been tightening its regulation of licensed antiquities sellers in recent years to prevent trafficking of looted objects, and the arrests appear to up the ante."It lit a red light," said Eitan Klein of the Antiquities Authority.Klein said items had been shipped legally from Dubai to Israel in 2011, and therefore the dealers did not break Israeli law at the time when they shipped the objects to the U.S.In 2012, Israel passed a stricter law on antiquities exports. Until then, Israeli law essentially sanctioned the sanitizing of looted items. Dealers were known to take advantage of a legal loophole to import antiquities from Dubai, considered a main hub of Middle Eastern antiquities.
Demonstrators dressed as characters from "The Handmaid's Tale" to protest SB8 at the Texas Capitol in May.A federal judge temporarily blocked an anti-abortion law set to take effect in Texas on Friday that would have limited second trimester abortions in that state.U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel issued an injunction lasting 14 days that prevents Texas from outlawing an abortion procedure known as dilation and evacuation, commonly used on women seeking to terminate their pregnancies in their second trimester.In his ruling, Yeakel wrote, "The act leaves that woman and her physician with abortion procedures that are more complex, risky, expensive, difficult for many women to arrange, and often involve multi-day visits to physicians, and overnight hospital stays.""The Texas Attorney General will continue to defend our state's legal right to protect the basic human rights and dignity of the unborn," he added, indicating that Texas will appeal the ruling.The judge has scheduled a Sept. 14 hearing to consider whether to extend the order against implementing the law.
Waynetta Lawrie (left), of Tulsa, Okla., stands with others at the state Capitol in Oklahoma City in 2007, during a demonstration by several Cherokee Freedmen and their supporters.A judge ruled Wednesday that the descendants of enslaved people who were owned by members of the Cherokee Nation — known as Cherokee Freedmen — have citizenship rights.After Emancipation, the Cherokee Nation granted its former slaves tribal citizenship as part of a treaty with the U.S. government in 1866. But in 2007, Cherokee members voted overwhelmingly to strip 2,800 Freedmen of their membership, defining tribal citizenship as "by blood."Now, the fight over citizenship has come to an end."There can be racial justice — but it doesn't always come easy," Vann told NPR. "What this means for me, is the Freedmen people will be able to continue our citizenship ... and also that we're able to preserve our history. All we ever wanted was the rights promised us, to continue to be enforced.""The Cherokee Nation respects the rule of law, and yesterday we began accepting and processing citizenship applications from Freedmen descendants," Hembree said. "While the U.S. District Court ruled against the Cherokee Nation, I do not see it as a defeat. As the Attorney General, I see this as an opportunity to resolve the Freedmen citizenship issue and allow the Cherokee Nation to move beyond this dispute."
Whitlee Hurd, the mother of five children, walks through her damaged home in northeast Houston. "This is my child's room but I can't have them sleep here now because the window is open," she says. "We told the maintenance man but he won't help us."In northeast Houston, grocery stores are boarded up. Gas stations are closed. Streets are covered in a thin layer of dusty mud.And, on block after block, homes are full of people; some returning after harrowing rescues and frustrating nights in shelters, others who never escaped their apartments as the water rose.Even as some shelters elsewhere in the city turn away extra volunteers and try to handle a massive influx of donations, many people in the northeast part of the city feel cut off from rescue and relief services. For a lot of families, the flood damage and lost wages are the difference between getting by and wondering how they'll make ends meet.Whitlee Hurd and Reartta Carson waited with seven children for rescue workers for three days in their first-floor apartments. Debris in the floodwater broke a window in one of the kids' bedrooms. The air conditioning unit outside flooded and hasn't turned on since Sunday. "My son has asthma," Carson says. "There's no air. No food.""All we have is chips and candy, and we're running out of that," says Hurd.Carson says National Guard trucks came through twice between Sunday and Wednesday, but Guard members said they couldn't help the family. They were in rescue mode."I told them, you don't need to evacuate us, but we need food and fans," says Hurd. "They said we can't help; we'll come back. Come back? What? They didn't never come back.""Food and fans, food and fans," she says, shaking her head. "I just keep saying it, we need food and fans."Carson walked to the closest grocery store, about a mile down the road, on Tuesday, when the street was still flooded, but found it closed because people had stolen food. She says the owners of the store yelled at her, "Don't walk over here! Everything broken into!""First of all, baby, I don't want to rob nothing," she says. "My child needs to eat! I got kids at home that's hungry. Y'all not sending anyone over here to help us, so all we can do is walk through this water to try to find something."With no other option, Hurd drove 30 minutes to a grocery store in a neighborhood closer to downtown Houston on Wednesday and stood in line for an hour to buy food there.She and Carson both say it feels to them like emergency services are concentrated in richer, whiter neighborhoods elsewhere in the city."They were sending [help] to the ones that were not our color, know what I'm saying?" Hurd says. "If you had money, you [got boats arriving with] help. The less fortunate ones, we had to walk. Where's our help? We're not asking to be evacuated, we're just asking for food and fans."A few miles south, in the neighborhood of Kashmere Gardens, people who did evacuate were returning home from emergency shelters to check the damage on Wednesday.In a red sweater and white pants, Emma Dunn stepped over a pile of tangled debris outside the door of her apartment across the street from Hunter Bayou.At its height, "it was a lake. You didn't know where that bayou was because you couldn't tell. It all was a lake," she says. Dunn, 72, evacuated her home in ankle-deep water on Saturday. "When your mattress start floating, it's time to get out," she says.After a few days at an emergency shelter, she decided it was time to go back to her home of 33 years, for better or worse.The floodwaters had entered her home, soaking the couch up to the seat cushions. Her car was pushed by the force of the water to an angle in her driveway. Grass and mud are drying under the door handles.Jim Harris, the manager of her apartment complex, was checking on the complex's 49 units. He told Dunn and her family not to clean anything up."No, no, no," he says. "Just leave it as it is until FEMA comes. I know that you're trying to get back to your life, but FEMA says don't touch anything until they can actually come and see it."Teniya Brewer walks through Pauline Simpson's home looking at the water damage.
(Left) Flooded neigborhoods can be seen in New Orleans in 2005. (Right) Flooded homes are shown near Lake Houston following Hurricane Harvey on Aug. 30.In 2005, when the most destructive and costliest natural disaster in the history of the United States struck New Orleans, tens of thousands of people would wait out the rebuilding of their city in Houston. Now it's Houston's moment in history to recover from an epic inundation.  Evacuees fill up cots at the George Brown Convention Center on Aug. 28 in Houston.Déjà vu is understandable. This week, we watch images of residents sloshing out of submerged neighborhoods, a convention center turned into an evacuation camp, orange Coast Guard choppers plucking people off of rooftops, and freeway overpasses turned into boat ramps for a spontaneous civilian-led rescue effort. Harvey produced, in some places, more than 50 inches of rain in five days, a rainfall record for a tropical storm in the lower 48. But there are big differences between hurricanes Harvey and Katrina. For many days after the storm, New Orleans ceased functioning as a modern American city. Its civic infrastructure dissolved.Houstonians had days of advance notice that a slow-moving tropical storm was coming their way and could cause catastrophic flooding. New Orleanians were advised to evacuate before the arrival of Katrina, and most of them did. But for those who stayed behind, the federally built flood protection system would fail and Katrina's massive storm surge would engulf the Crescent City. Water would  surge violently through the breaches into the Lower Ninth Ward and Lakeview neighborhood with enough force to wash houses off their foundations. Nothing like that happened in Houston.The Saldivar family crashed their van into Greens Bayou as they tried to flee Hurricane Harvey during heavy flooding in Houston on Aug. 30. The death toll from Harvey is much lower than from Hurricane Katrina.The tale of two storms is also told in the loss of life. Katrina was responsible for 1,833 deaths; so far, the death toll of Harvey was fewer than 50 on Thursday afternoon.The aftermaths of Harvey and Katrina may end up having more in common than their opening acts. In Houston, as in New Orleans, thousands of residential homes will sit in fetid floodwaters for days and weeks. Wallboard will mold, studs will rot, furniture and possessions will become rubbish.  The TV cameras will cut away from Houston, and residents will begin the long battles with insurance companies and building contractors and code inspectors. Each storm has proven to be The Big One that people always feared. In New Orleans, with its storied history of surviving hurricanes, many folks now refer to Katrina simply as "the storm." One wonders if Houstonians will start referring to "the storm."   John Burnett is an Austin-based National Desk reporter who covered Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath extensively for NPR.
The Sam Houston Tollway is submerged near the Hedwig Village neighborhood in Houston on Tuesday.There isn't a city in the United States, and there are probably very few anywhere in the world, that could have handled Hurricane Harvey's 50 inches of rain without significant flooding.But Harvey was Houston's third flood in three years to surpass the "100 year flood" mark. Urban planners and civil engineers say a combination of natural and man-made factors has created a chronic drainage problem that left the city especially vulnerable to Harvey's torrential rains.Here are three reasons Houston was, in the words of one expert, a "sitting duck" for catastrophic flooding.1. Flat landscapeHouston sits just under 50 feet above sea level and is among the flattest major metropolitan areas in the U.S. "We have a slope that is less than one foot per mile," says Phil Bedient, who teaches civil and environmental engineering at Rice University. "And because of that, we have very slow draining systems."That system consists of natural bayous and man-made channels that funnel water from west to east to flow out of the city and into Galveston Bay. Bedient says such a gradual slope doesn't allow for floodwaters to move fast enough, so it backs up into nearby streets, parking lots, homes and buildings.2. Aging infrastructureBrody specializes in natural hazard mitigation. He and others in his field point to old and inadequate drains and pipes that can handle at most 1 to 1 1/2 inches of rain per hour. Hurricane Harvey's deluge overwhelmed them.Some of the bayous can handle only 10-year storms. That means there's a 10 percent chance of a storm meeting or exceeding that capacity in any given year, explains Joe Schofer, a civil engineering professor at Northwestern University."That's a really high probability. If you were buying lottery tickets with a 10 percent chance, that would be a good way to get rich," he says. "What you're saying is you're planning to be overwhelmed by a storm that is relatively high probability."Expanding the bayous to increase their capacity is difficult because the county didn't leave enough room around them for widening. Where they can be widened, projects have been slow and inadequate, according to Rice University's Bedient.Kelli Walker wasn't able to get into her family's home, on the other side of the brick wall, because of the depth of the rising floodwater in Houston on Tuesday.3. Rapid growth without zoning regulations"When you've got rapid growth and development, along with that comes roadways, rooftops, and parking lots," says Brody.According to Brody, "all of that impervious surface makes it very difficult for the water to drain into the soil. Instead, it runs into the bayous and, in this case, into people's homes."Brody adds that a lot of those roads, buildings and parking lots have been built up over grass and prairie lands to the west of the city."That compromises the natural infrastructure of this very flat and low-lying landscape, making it difficult for the water to absorb and be held by the prairie and the wetlands, and slowly release into Galveston Bay."Houston after Harvey"It's not reasonable or fair to say, 'You people in Houston could have done a better job and it's too bad you're going through this,' " Northwestern's Schofer says."Harvey's an opportunity, when it's all done and everything is dried out, to step back and say what can we do to protect ourselves in the future because there will be a future. This kind of thing will happen again."Going back into developed areas to retrofit stormwater systems and adding green space will be difficult, but Rice's Bedient says the government should seriously consider buying out homes and businesses that are flooding over and over again and turning those areas into retention ponds.A search and rescue team pulls people out of an area flooded by the overflow of Addicks Reservoir in Houston on Tuesday."We're so flat and the drainage is so slow in many areas that we should consider the idea of holding some of this stormwater back and then pumping it out at a later time," he says.Brody says the discussion needs to also go beyond engineering and to policies on a regional scale "and look at where we're putting people, pavement and structures in relation to flood vulnerability.""It's really too easy to lose the momentum a year or two or three after the storm and to not make the sacrifices really to buy and build the infrastructure that gives us some protection against a storm of this magnitude.""The pattern is really clear," Schofer says. "It doesn't make sense to ignore this in the aftermath and fail to build the protection we really need."
U.S. Customs and Border Protection Acting Deputy Commissioner Ronald Vitiello speaks to reporters about choosing four contractors to build the first prototypes of the border wall.The U.S. Customs and Border Protection announced the selection of four construction companies to build concrete prototypes of the wall President Trump plans to build along with border with Mexico.Each prototype will be 30 feet tall and 30 feet wide, and cost between $400,000 and about $500,000.The four companies are Caddell Construction of Montgomery, Ala.; Fisher Sand and Gravel/DBA Fisher Industries of Tempe, Ariz.; Texas Sterling Construction of Houston, Texas; and W.G. Yates & Sons Construction Company of Philadelphia, Miss.President Trump last week said that he was prepared to shut down the government if lawmakers did not approve funds for building the "big, beautiful wall" he promised during his presidential campaign.Trump initially insisted that Mexico would pay for the wall, but its leaders have flatly rejected that idea. Now the president wants Congress to fund it.The acting deputy commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Ronald Vitiello, called the contractor selection "a significant milestone.""This is the first tangible result of the action planning that has gone on. This is the use of the resources we had available for this year," Vitiello said in a Washington, D.C., news conference. This stage of the border wall project will be paid for with funds already appropriated by Congress for the current fiscal year.The actual prototype construction will begin in about two weeks following discussions with the selected contractors about scheduling. They will have 30 days to complete their prototypes. Homeland Security officials will then take 30 to 60 days to test the prototypes to see if they can be penetrated or otherwise compromised.Four more contractors will be selected who have proposed to build prototypes with materials other than concrete. That announcement is scheduled for next week.
At a time when the Great Barrier Reef and other coral reefs are facing unprecedented destruction, researchers in Australia have found a small ray of hope for the fish that make the reefs their home.Increasing carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, caused by burning fossil fuels, is being absorbed by oceans and causing them to become more acidic. That dissolved carbon dioxide can cause erratic, risky behavior in fish that could impact their survival. For example, previous research demonstrates that exposing fish to high levels of carbon dioxide dulls their responses to predators, making them more likely to become a meal. Exposure can also make fish favor just one of their sides while moving, or make them more active and bold.Those findings raised fears about the sustainability of coral reef fish populations as the dissolved carbon dioxide level increases. Past studies have primarily used stable rates of carbon dioxide, based on projections from the open oceans.However, open oceans have different chemical patterns than coral reefs.  Researchers in Australia mimicked the daily changes of carbon dioxide levels in coral reef environments to see how the fish respond — and they found that the fish could withstand periods with significantly higher levels of acidification without causing behavior abnormalities. Those periods of lower carbon dioxide levels "are enough to provide fish with a recovery period, reducing their sensitivity to higher carbon dioxide levels," James Cook University's Michael Jarrold said. The experiments tested the impact of fluctuating carbon dioxide levels on clownfish and juvenile damselfish. They found that the fish's erratic behavior was mitigated – in experiments that varied both the size of the carbon dioxide fluctuations and the mean concentration of the acid.Other studies found that in a stable environment, the behavior of fish would begin to change at carbon dioxide levels between 600 and 700 μatm, or microatmospheres. These researchers found that fish raised in stable carbon dioxide levels of 750 μatm showed strange behavior – but those raised at 750 μatm with fluctuations of 300 μatm above or below that did not.However, this research suggests there are limits to the resilience of reef fish. In another experiment, they found that at 1000 μatm, even fish treated with fluctuations showed signs of behavior abnormalities. Therefore, ocean levels of 1000 μatm "will need to be reached before behavioural abnormalities could manifest in natural populations of reef fish," the paper states."We are thrilled about what we've found," Jarrold added. "Our results provide a greater level of optimism for reef fish populations in the future."
People in Richmond, Texas, line up to gain entrance to a grocery store after it opened for the first time in several days due to Tropical Storm Harvey.It was a revealing look inside a logistical nightmare. Boyan walked through two crowded, windowless rooms, stopping to speak with the people responsible for reopening stores, locating employees (or, as the company calls them, "partners") to staff those stores, organizing deliveries of water and ice, and figuring out how to line up fresh supplies of milk, eggs and bread despite the city's waterlogged streets.One example: H-E-B makes most of its own bread, and its two bread-making plants are located in Corpus Christi and Houston. When the storm hit, "we had to take Corpus down, run the whole company out of Houston," Boyan explained in the video. When the storm moved on toward Houston, "we had to switch back to Corpus, now we're on generator power" at that plant. But the company's supply of fresh bread was never interrupted.There was a lot more than H-E-B's own business at stake. Every day without deliveries of food and water could mean hunger for many thousands of people. "One of the things we're really proud of is being the last to close and the first to open," Boyan said.Indeed, H-E-B and other big supermarket chains managed to get stores open and trucks rolling from warehouses at an impressive pace this week.On Tuesday, at the height of the flooding, Walmart had closed 134 Houston-area stores. By Thursday, only 21 stores remained closed. H-E-B also had reopened almost 90 percent of its stores by then. Of the 20 stores owned by Albertson's, 16 are now open.According to Ragan Dickens, a Walmart spokesman, "very few" of the company's stores actually flooded. The company had to throw out some perishable food, but it was able to reopen any stores that were accessible to trucks and had electrical power.Dickens says that customers at some locations have been forced to line up outside to prevent overcrowding inside. And some stores remain closed because workers and trucks can't get to them through flooded roads."We did a whole set of interviews, and we found that the bigger chains and the bigger businesses had very extensive planning in place" for natural disasters, Neff says.City governments, on the other hand, don't always think enough about food supply in their emergency planning, she says. In Baltimore, for instance, "there was an emergency operations center, but nobody [overseeing] food was there."Baltimore has now changed that. The city now has a "food resilience coordinator" who is part of emergency planning. "This is something that very few places have done in the past," Neff says. "I really believe it's something that everybody should be looking at."According to Neff, governments do need to be involved, in addition to supermarkets. "In Houston, as everywhere, the impacts are not equally felt," she says. "People with lower incomes, people who are elderly, with disabilities, with medically necessary diets, may be particularly hit by this kind of situation, and really have quite severe food security threats to them." And city governments need to be prepared to get food to these, more vulnerable groups.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters that President Trump will be donating $1 million of his own money to Harvey relief in Texas and Louisiana.President Trump is pledging to chip in to assist Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts, to the tune of $1 million of his personal funds.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders made the unexpected announcement during her briefing on Thursday. Responding to a question about whether the president planned to personally contribute, Sanders said Trump "would like to join in the efforts that a lot of the people that we've seen across this country do, and he's pledging $1 million of personal money to the fund."Sanders told reporters that Trump had asked her to check with "the folks in this room since you are very good with research" about where he should make the donation for people in Texas and Louisiana.Vice President Pence surveyed flooded-out areas of Texas on Thursday. He helped pick up debris, visited a heavily damaged church in Rockport and stopped at a food distribution center in Victoria. He pledged support for flood victims, saying the White House will "be with you every day until Texas rebuilds stronger and better than before."Vice President Pence helps clear brush during a visit to Texas on Thursday.
Larry Koser Jr. (left) and his son, Matthew, look for important papers and heirlooms inside his house after it was flooded by heavy rains from Hurricane Harvey.Property owners started filing insurance claims before the rain even stopped. They wanted to get to the front of what's expected to be a long line of flood claims, according to Joel Moore, an independent insurance adjuster for Gulf Coast Claims in Houston. "They filed claims before they evacuated," he says. "So they actually have no idea if there's damage or not. They just wanted to be at the front end of the curve."Texas officials estimate there are 49,000 flooded homes. Not all of those will have flood insurance, but insurance companies predict tens of thousands will have covered damage. To work all the expected claims, insurance companies will rely on hundreds of small catastrophe companies that hire independent contractors to work 14-hour days. These catastrophe adjusters spend most of the year waiting for a damaging storm to blow in. When one finally arrives, they load up their vans and campers and drive to where the damage is.Moore says, "They work real hard for an extended period of time. They're well-compensated for their expertise. And then they may sit for years." The work is grueling. They go house to house in the mud and heat encountering emotional homeowners who just lost everything. Moore has been adjusting claims for 25 years. He warns his employees to sympathize with storm victims."How would you feel if you were in the same situation? You need to slow down, shut up, let them vent, let them cry, tell them you're sorry, and if you're not sorry you need to get out of the business," he says.But it is still a business. Moore says that to process many claims, cat teams will develop shortcuts, and some will hire inexperienced adjusters who just got their license.For people who want to become certified flood insurance adjusters, FEMA runs clinics on the National Flood Insurance Program. Anyone can register for the course online and be a certified flood adjuster by the end of the day. Some in the industry worry that the legions of inexperienced flood adjusters do more harm than good.  One critic says that during Superstorm Sandy, green adjusters overlooked all sorts of technical details."These people don't know if there's conduit running on the outside of the wall, that they have a line item for that to put in the estimate. So it's just not going to be in the estimate," says Jeff Major, a public adjuster in New York.  And if it's not in the estimate, homeowners don't get paid. After thousands of Sandy victims complained about poor adjusting, FEMA reopened 20,000 claims that found more than $390 million in unpaid damage. After the controversy, FEMA says, the agency learned a lesson and increased oversight over the private carriers that administer the flood program."There's much stronger awareness that FEMA has made, and much stronger points that FEMA has made with insurance companies to try and ensure that the consumer's treated appropriately and fairly," says Don Griffin, vice president at Property Casualty Insurers Association, a trade group representing the flood insurance companies that run FEMA's program. Griffin says FEMA is now holding daily calls with private insurance companies to remind them about new flood policy rules.These rules apply to those with flood coverage. Those without will have to rely on government aid. Following both Katrina and Sandy, Congress authorized FEMA to spend about $60 billion per storm to help those who didn't have flood insurance.
Monty Hall got it.Born on August 25, 1921, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, young Monte Halperin was a theater kid through-and-through. He starred in school plays, and in college musicals. He moved to Toronto, then to New York, and then to Hollywood, yearning for his big break.It was a show dedicated to the idea that everyday folk — people like you and me! — would gleefully make themselves look foolish for a chance at a big cash prize.Which is to say: It created reality television.Hall would, for example, offer a woman a small amount of cash for the contents of her purse in exchange for the chance to receive what waited for her behind Door Number One, Door Number Two or Door Number Three. (Invariably, a brace of chickens, or a donkey, or some other booby prize awaited behind the wrong door. If she chose the wrong door, the audience would exult. The show served up public humiliation as a consequence of pure chance.)Joanna Gleason as The Baker's Wife in "Into the Woods"
The Voyager Golden Record remained mostly unavailable and unheard, until a Kickstarter campaign finally brought the sounds to human ears.The Golden Record is basically a 90-minute interstellar mixtape — a message of goodwill from the people of Earth to any extraterrestrial passersby who might stumble upon one of the two Voyager spaceships at some point over the next couple billion years.But since it was made 40 years ago, the sounds etched into those golden grooves have gone mostly unheard, by alien audiences or those closer to home."The Voyager records are the farthest flung objects that humans have ever created," says Timothy Ferris, a veteran science and music journalist and the producer of the Golden Record. "And they're likely to be the longest lasting, at least in the 20th century."In the late 1970s, Ferris was recruited by his friend, astronomer Carl Sagan, to join a team of scientists, artists and engineers to help create two engraved golden records to accompany NASA's Voyager mission — which would eventually send a pair of human spacecraft beyond the outer rings of the solar system for the first time in history.Ferris was tasked with the technical aspects of getting the various media onto the physical LP, and with helping to select the music. In addition to greetings in dozens of languages and messages from leading statesmen, the records also contained a sonic history of planet Earth and photographs encoded into the record's grooves. But mostly, it was music."We were gathering a representation of the music of the entire earth," Ferris says. "That's an incredible wealth of great stuff."Ferris and his colleagues worked together to sift through Earth's enormous discography to decide which pieces of sound would best represent our planet. They really only had two criteria: "One was: Let's cast a wide net. Let's try to get music from all over the planet," he says. "And secondly: Let's make a good record."That meant late nights of listening sessions while "almost physically drowning in records," Ferris says.Ferris says that from the very start, many people on the production team expected and hoped for the record to be commercially released soon after the launch of Voyager."Carl Sagan tried to interest labels in releasing Voyager," Ferris says. "It never worked."Ferris says that's likely because the music rights were owned by several different record labels who were hesitant to share the bill. So — except for a limited CD-ROM release in the early 1990s — the record went largely unheard by the wider world.David Pescovitz, an editor at technology news website Boing Boing and a research director at the nonprofit Institute for the Future, was seven years old when the Voyager spacecraft launched."When you're seven years old and you hear that a group of people created a phonograph record as a message for possible extraterrestrials and launched it on a grand tour of the solar system," says Pescovitz, "it sparks the imagination."A couple years ago, Pescovitz and his friend Tim Daly, a record store manager at Amoeba Music in San Francisco, decided to collaborate on bringing the Golden Record to an earthbound audience.Pescovitz approached his former graduate school professor — none other than Ferris, the Golden Record's original producer — about the project, and Ferris gave his blessing, with one important caveat."You can't release a record without remastering it," says Ferris. "And you can't remaster without locating the master."That turned out to be a taller order than expected. The original records were mastered in a CBS studio, which was later acquired by Sony — and the master tapes had descended into Sony's vaults.Pescovitz enlisted the company's help in searching for the master tapes; in the meantime, he and Daly got to work acquiring the rights for the music and photographs that comprised the original. They also reached out to surviving musicians whose work had been featured on the record to update incomplete track information.Finally, Pescovitz and Daly got word that one of Sony's archivists had found the master tapes.Pescovitz remembers the moment he, Daly and Ferris traveled to Sony's Battery Studios in New York City to hear the tapes for the first time.Daly says that, in remastering the album, the team decided not to clean up the analog artifacts that had made their way onto the original master tapes, in order to preserve the record's authenticity down to its imperfections."We wanted it to be a true representation of what went up," Daly says."I mean, if you do a golden record box set, you have to do it on gold vinyl," Daly says.They put the project on Kickstarter and expected to sell it mostly to vinyl collectors, space nerds and audiophiles — but they underestimated the appeal."The internet was just on fire, talking about this thing," Daly says.They blew past their initial funding goal in two days, eventually raising more than $1.3 million dollars, making it the most successful musical Kickstarter campaign ever. Among the initial 11,000 contributors were family members of NASA's original Voyager mission team.Last week, Ferris got his box set in the mail. He says that his friend, the late Carl Sagan, would be delighted by what they made."I think this record exceeds Carl's — not only his expectations, but probably his highest hopes for a release of the Voyager record," Ferris says. "I'm glad these folks were finally able to make it happen."Pescovitz says he's just glad to have returned the Golden Record to the world that created it."As much as it was a gift from humanity to the cosmos, it was really a gift to humanity as well," Pescovitz says. "It's a reminder of what we can accomplish when we're at our best."
On Sunday, a new law takes effect in France that says a commercial image depicting a model with a digitally altered body must be accompanied by a notice.Questions about whether a perfect-looking model could possibly be real will soon be answered more definitively in France, where new rules stipulate that some digitally altered images must come with a disclaimer.Failure to comply is punishable by a fine of more than $44,000, or 30 percent of the money spent on advertising."It is necessary to act on body image in society to avoid the promotion of inaccessible beauty ideals and prevent anorexia among young people," Touraine said, according to the French daily. It reports that eating disorders affect some 600,000 people in France.The Photoshopping rule goes into effect Sunday in France, but it's already having a ripple effect across the Atlantic.Also as of Sunday, Getty Images, the widely used American stock photo agency, is no longer accepting creative content "depicting models whose body shapes have been retouched to make them look thinner or larger," spokeswoman Anne Flanagan told NPR in an email.Flanagan said the move is a direct response to France's rule. She added the company is not looking to phase out such retouched images, but will be labeling those it already has."Altering a model's body shape as described by the new French law is quite rare in commercial stock photography," Flanagan said, noting that it is time- consuming and bucks "the increasing trend toward more authentic imagery."But Flanagan says the change is an important one nonetheless."Our perceptions of what is possible are often shaped by what we see," she said. "Positive imagery can have direct impact on fighting stereotypes, creating tolerance, and empowering communities to feel represented in society."
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson shakes hands with China's President Xi Jinping in Beijing on Saturday. Tillerson acknowledged the U.S. has direct contact with North Korea over its nuclear program. China is seen as crucial in helping to avert a military confrontation.Updated 3:45 p.m. ET Saturday"We have a couple, three channels open to Pyongyang. We can talk to them, we do talk to them," Tillerson told reporters Saturday in Beijing, according to the pool report.Tillerson made clear that those talks are not necessarily happening at Pyonyang's highest levels. When asked how he would open a dialogue with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, Tillerson said, "We are probing. So stay tuned."Later Saturday, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert weighed in, affirming in a statement, "U.S. diplomats have several open channels in which we can communicate with officials within the North Korean regime."She went on to say, "Despite assurances that the United States is not interested in promoting the collapse of the current regime, pursuing regime change, accelerating reunification of the peninsula or mobilizing forces north of the DMZ, North Korean officials have shown no indication that they are interested in or are ready for talks regarding denuclearization."Tillerson emphasized that the talks with Pyongyang are not being mediated by China. "Directly. Our own channels," he said.He did not say whether North Korea is responding to the overtures."The whole situation is a bit overheated right now," Tillerson said. "I think everyone would like for it to calm down. I think if North Korea would stop firing all the missiles, that would calm down things a lot."On Friday, the White House announced that Trump will travel to five Asian nations, three of which play central roles in the crisis with North Korea: Japan, South Korea and China.
There's lots of new info this week for those thinking about college, plus many other education topics in our weekly roundup.Schools on the mainland brace for Puerto Rican studentsCollege Scorecard updateThis week the Department of Education let fly a lot of new data.Oct. 1 is the date to begin applying for college student aidNew data on student loan repaymentStudents who use tax-credit scholarships in Florida are more likely to attend college Poor parents are working harder, but students still start school behind
Megyn Kelly poses on the set of her new show at NBC Studios in New York. Her first week as host of the morning show was rocky.In the space of just a few days, Kelly managed to alienate two celebrity guests — one of whom is a star in a sister NBC show. Otherwise, Kelly relentlessly pumped the network's shows and leveraged human interest segments as vehicles for promoting corporate sponsors, and sought to stress her role as a working mom.It's fundamentally unfair to evaluate a show with any finality based on its first few episodes. Yet one should be able to get a sense of where it thinks it is headed. At the moment, the show is a bit of a jumble because of the profound transformation the host is attempting to make in the public eye.Morning show hosts are typically ingratiating confidants, blending newsy segments, celebrity interviews and more personal obsessions. They tend to appeal to female viewers, and women of color often represent a disproportionate slice of the audience.Kelly made her mark as the keenly focused former attorney drilling down on political matters on Fox News's prime time. As a rule, Fox tends to drum empathy out of its biggest stars, except when useful for ideological or partisan purposes. Kelly tended to play to the right-leaning home team, but that said, she showed notable flashes of independence, especially when it involved  matters of gender.In August 2015, Kelly burst into total national consciousness with her tough-minded questioning of a presidential candidate at a Republican primary debate. Her question included this pungent lead-in: "You've called women you don't like fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals ..."Kelly left for NBC and has been eager to proclaim a new chapter and to shed Fox News, where she alleged she had been harassed by the channel's founder, the late Roger Ailes. (He had been privately advising Donald Trump during the primaries from his offices at Fox.)In fact, Kelly recently declared she wanted to be done with politics. Yet it can be hard to draw clean lines, as we've just learned from White House attacks on NFL players' protests over episodes of police brutality toward black citizens. (Kelly told an audience member that she felt, as an attorney, both the players and the White House should have the First Amendment right to say what they thought.)Not all her interviewees this week experienced joy.Hollywood stars Jane Fonda and Robert Redford joined Kelly to talk about their new movie. It was, for once, not an NBC corporate promotion, just an old-fashioned celebrity interview. Given the longtime liberal activism of each of the actors, Fox News would have been unlikely to approve such a booking. And Kelly stayed away from politics. She seemed to be trying to connect as a professional woman, starting by praising Fonda: "You've been an example to everyone in how to age beautifully and with strength."Fonda shot back, "We really want to talk about that?"Let's not overlook the elephant in the room.Ghosts of Fox News and its ideology hover over Kelly. That heritage is in some way part of her appeal to NBC News Chairman Andrew Lack. He is mindful of sister station MSNBC's liberal leanings and wanted to ensure that red state America would feel comfortable watching NBC News' most profitable program.Yet in TV, as in Faulkner, the past is never quite dead.Kelly infamously insisted both Jesus Christ and Santa Claus were white.And she found other ways to play to Fox's die-hard viewers. In 2010, she devoted hours of coverage to the threat posed by a tiny black hate group over voter intimidation that did not appear to intimidate any voters.From a television standpoint, however, the questions involve authenticity, connection and the logic of the show itself."It's been very exciting. It has been educational. I have been so delighted at the media response — no," Kelly said, stopping herself as the audience laughed. "But the viewer response has been awesome."
President Trump walks to Marine One for his first trip as president in January."Have you or any non-career official at the White House ever used a personal email account to conduct official business?" the committee's Republican chairman and Democratic ranking member wrote in a letter to White House counsel Don McGahn this week. "If so, please identify the individual and the account used, and provide evidence of measures to ensure compliance with federal law.""Essentially the law on the books since the Nixon administration says that the public needs to know the official business of the federal government," said Nate Jones, with the National Security Archive, an open government group.Presidential records include emails and text messages. The act was amended in 2014 "to make it crystal clear that you couldn't use personal or any other email" for government business, Jones said. The law has some leeway built in for instances when the wrong account was accidentally used, or if work email is down. Any official email sent or received on a personal account has to be forwarded to the government account within 20 days.This was all prompted by something that happened during the George W. Bush administration. Richard Painter was chief White House ethics lawyer at the time and instructed all aides and officials that they shouldn't use nongovernment emails for official business.Jared Kushner, President Trump's adviser and son-in-law, used a personal email account for at least some White House business."But a number of people chose to use Republican National Committee email for official United States government business and then the Republican National Committee server apparently deleted it," Painter said.Millions of emails went missing, though they were recovered much later. Painter, now a professor at University of Minnesota Law School and vice chairman of the government watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, says there are two main reasons why using personal email for official business is problematic — for records preservation and because of the risk that classified information could end up on a nongovernmental system."You know it was embarrassing and I would have hoped that [Obama] Secretary [of State Hillary] Clinton would have learned from that," said Painter. "Apparently she didn't. And I would have hoped that the Trump administration would have learned from what has happened before as well and apparently they don't learn the lesson either."Kushner sent or received about 100 work-related emails on his personal account from January through August, usually forwarded articles or an exchange initiated by someone else. That is according to a statement from his attorney Abbe Lowell. Lowell added, "all non-personal emails were forwarded to his official address and all have been preserved in any event."In Lowell's statement, there's no mention of when the emails were forwarded."The key thing that Mr. Kushner's lawyer didn't say was if he forwarded the emails before 20 days were over or not. Because if he did he would be in the clear, but if he forwarded his emails to the official account after, he did break the law," said Jones.Kushner's lawyer did not respond to questions from NPR about when Kushner forwarded the emails to his official account. But here's the thing: Even if Kushner did violate the Presidential Records Act, there aren't many consequences."It's not a criminal offense. It's just very, very stupid," said Painter. "None of this is criminal. Nobody is getting locked up. But it really is very, very poor judgment."
Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon speaks at a rally on Monday night in Alabama in support of candidate Roy Moore.Roy Moore's GOP runoff win in Alabama on Tuesday has only emboldened the anti-establishment wing of the party in its belief that it can knock off other incumbent senators in next year's midterm primaries.Now back at Breitbart News, the controversial Bannon is promising to wield even more power in what he says is an effort to advance the nationalist, nativist and populist portions of President Trump's agenda. He is vowing to boost candidates who threaten to take down establishment-leaning Republicans.After notching a victory by backing Moore over Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's (and President Trump's) favored candidate, Bannon and his allies are already looking at other candidates who could pull off upsets — and possibly scramble the 2018 Senate map. It's quite a turn from the last round of midterm elections in 2014 when McConnell and Washington Republicans were credited with crushing the Tea Party."I think this certainly emboldens people on the right or the more populist elements of the party to find more challengers," said former Rep. Tom Davis, R-Va., a former chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. "I think had they lost in Alabama, had McConnell been able to win, it would have ripped their sails out."GOP strategists note that there were some unique circumstances that made Luther Strange especially vulnerable. Strange was appointed to the U.S. Senate by a scandal-plagued governor he was supposed to be investigating and was never fully able to shake the stain of a possible quid pro quo. Strange, a former lobbyist, was never able to fire up the Trump-ian base.The next incumbent targets that Bannon and company are setting their sights on are Sens. Jeff Flake of Arizona, Dean Heller of Nevada and Roger Wicker of Mississippi. Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, another would-be Bannon target, announced this week he would not seek re-election. They were already on the hot seat in 2018 before Tuesday, but now challengers will be easier to recruit and money could flow."We've had multiple wake-up calls. Everyone should be wide awake by now," said Doug Heye, a former top aide to former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia, who shockingly lost in his own primary in 2014. "No one can afford to take anything for granted at this point, and that now includes primaries.""[C]andidates who are worried about Bannon's role (or counting on his support) in future races," Senate Leadership Fund president Steven Law wrote in the memo, "should note that nearly all of Bannon's engagement in Alabama was for the cameras and for promoting his own brand — all at the very end — not the kind of sustained political engagement that moves voters in the long slog of regular elections."Alabama gave Bannon and his allies a shot of adrenaline. And now they're going to be tested on whether they can recruit top-tier candidates with functional campaigns — and not simply be gadflies.Here's a rundown of the places where Bannon and other conservative outside groups could seek to play — and possibly cause chaos:ArizonaFlake was on shaky ground with Trump even before he published his tome, but comments like ones accusing GOP leaders of making a "Faustian bargain" with Trump and abandoning their conservative principles, didn't mend fences with the now-president (though Flake's consistently voted with Trump on most issues).Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., addresses business officials gathered for an event in Prescott, Ariz., on Aug. 10.As a result, Trump has tweeted supportive things about state Sen. Kelli Ward, Flake's only announced primary challenger as of now. Backing the wrong horse in Alabama — especially for a president who doesn't like being on the losing side of anything — could cause him to reconsider.Great to see that Dr. Kelli Ward is running against Flake Jeff Flake, who is WEAK on borders, crime and a non-factor in Senate. He's toxic!In the wake of Tuesday's win by Moore, Ward was quick to draw a parallel to her own underdog bid."Voters in Arizona feel an equal level of frustration with Sen. Jeff Flake, who has been one of the most vocal critics of President Trump," Ward said in a statement. "The Senate leadership should take note of what has transpired in Alabama and end their dishonest attacks against me. Our campaign has built incredible momentum and broad support across the state, and I am confident that any false personal attacks by forces in DC will be rejected by the citizens of Arizona – just as they were rejected by voters in Alabama tonight."NevadaSen. Dean Heller tried to do damage control with the conservative base after initially coming out against the GOP's first plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. But Heller eventually acquiesced and has supported subsequent efforts to repeal Obamacare, despite those failing or not coming up for a vote.A pro-Trump group ran ads against him. If that kind of effort continues, it could be particularly damaging given that Heller is the only Republican up for re-election this cycle in a state that Hillary Clinton carried last November.His waffling helped spur a primary challenge from repeated (and failed) candidate Danny Tarkanian. He's the son of legendary University of Nevada-Las Vegas basketball coach Jerry Tarkanian, who's well-known in the state. But he's lost winnable races before as the GOP nominee, including a House race last year, and D.C. operatives aren't optimistic that he can win a statewide general election if he's the nominee.Mississippi McDaniel was in Alabama to witness Moore's win Tuesday, and he's been in touch with Bannon about running against former National Republican Senatorial Committee Chairman Roger Wicker.But Wicker is no Cochran, who was caught flat-footed without having run a competitive race in years. And while yes, he's been a part of GOP leadership, Republicans point to the fact that he was instrumental in helping protect the Republican Senate majority in the 2016 cycle — which then led to confirming Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch.Tennessee Bannon and company got an early victory Tuesday before the Alabama polls closed when GOP Sen. Bob Corker announced he was retiring. Bannon had already threatened to recruit primary challengers against Corker after he called out the president.Corker, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who Trump considered for secretary of state, was seen as a pragmatic lawmaker, and news of his retirement drew bipartisan dismay.Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, chats with reporters at the Capitol in Washington, on Tuesday.And many other candidates are also eyeing bids, including Gov. Bill Haslam and Rep. Marsha Blackburn, a vocal Trump supporter. Tennessee also doesn't have a primary runoff, so often a candidate with just a plurality of the vote — often stemming from vote-rich East Tennessee — typically emerges, and conservative hopefuls frequently split the vote.Other GOP primaries to watchIt's not just in taking on incumbents where Bannon and his allies could give D.C. Republicans heartburn. With an incredibly favorable map featuring 10 Democratic incumbents in states Trump carried in 2016, if weak nominees come out of the primaries, those once winnable races could evaporate from the lists of possibilities. Just look back at nominees like Todd Akin of Missouri in 2014 and Christine O'Donnell in Delaware and Sharron Angle in Nevada in 2010 who all lost what many thought were winnable races.
Flooded houses near Lake Houston on Aug. 30, after the storm called Harvey swept through. Sociologist Clare Cooper Marcus says our homes hold our emotional history — our memories, our hopes, our dreams and pain. In some ways our homes are who we are.When Boyd Coble heard the sheriff's deputy pounding on his door in Houston in the middle of the night, he rolled over and went back to sleep. Coble, who lives alone, except for his Australian sheepdog, Wally, knew all about Hurricane Harvey. He just didn't think his own home would flood. It never had before, and even if a little water did trickle in, Coble was pretty sure he and Wally could ride it out.By the time the water was about 4 inches deep in his house, Coble says, things started happening. His floors were buckling, his stuff was floating around and Wally was having a hard time sloshing around in the water.Coble, a retiree, wasn't doing so well himself. He'd stopped eating very much and his strength was starting to go. And yet, he was determined to stay home.About 4:30 the next morning — on Aug. 29 — the sheriff's deputy returned to Coble's house, this time banging insistently on the front door. Coble looked out the window, and saw a boat in his front yard and a deputy on his stoop imploring him to open up. Once again Coble shook his head, "No thanks," and turned to go back to bed."I guess he scared me," Coble says, "so I got some stuff together, and my dog, and we went."Boyd Coble at the Al-Salam Mosque in North Houston, in late August, waiting out the storm that had forced him to flee his home.I met Coble the next day — in a shelter at the Al-Salam Mosque in north Houston. He was wearing a baseball cap — with the name of the oil and gas company where he used to work written across the top. Coble was pale and hunched, a wheelchair poised next to him.He told me then that he regretted leaving his home and that he figured that "9 feet" was probably an exaggeration. I shook my head and said "Boyd, your floors were buckling, your dog couldn't get around. Why stay under those conditions?"He gave me a gentle smile and said, " 'cause I'm a homebody."His story is not unusual. Each time a disaster threatens and authorities try to get people to evacuate, a certain number refuse to leave their homes. They each have particular reasons; but in the face of impending doom, the arguments can sound thin.In Houston, Salma Rao and her husband Zulfiqar Sheikh told me they live with their elderly in-laws, so moving to a shelter seemed impossible. In fact, they were so determined to stay in their house that when the toilets started backing up and overflowing they chose to stop eating and drinking to avoid using the toilets, rather than move to a shelter.Even the risk of starvation and dehydration were apparently better than leaving home.It might defy logic to grip so tightly when the ship is sinking, but Clare Cooper Marcus, a social scientist and retired professor of architecture at the University of California, Berkeley, says there is something profound behind it. Our homes are the keepers of our selves — our memories, our hopes, our dreams and pain. In some ways our homes are who we are.When she started the book, Cooper Marcus says, architects and designers weren't asking people how they "felt" about their housing. They'd only asked pragmatic questions — "Do you like the kitchen?" "How is that common area working out for you?"Cooper Marcus wanted to help architects go deeper — to take into account the emotional relationships people have with their environment.One of the most dramatic patterns she noticed, as she talked to these people, were the striking parallels between their current homes and the homes of their childhood. Sometimes these parallels were positive — in the way, say, they'd decorated — and sometimes negative, as in never being able to relax at home, because their childhood home had been unhappy, a place they'd always tried to escape.Whatever the experience, Cooper Marcus says, it was clear that the home and the many things in it held a value deeper than the thing itself. We don't tend to think of inanimate objects in terms of feelings, and usually not in terms of love, she says, until "we lose them."One woman quoted in Cooper Marcus' book relates her personal experience of facing down such a threat. It was the fall of 1991. Fire was ripping its way through the hills around Berkeley and Oakland, Calif., and she and her husband were forced to leave home fast. She describes what happened that evening, after they left, this way:"Through the night, tossing in an unfamiliar bed, I imagined my house fending for itself, like the little house in the Laura Ingalls Wilder books. At dawn, when the fire had moved south of our neighborhood, we awoke, and my husband dialed the bulky hotel phone next to the bed. I heard the clear sound of my voice on our answering machine. After the beep, my husband whispered, 'Hello house, we love you.' "To be sure, disasters don't seem to know about love, nor do they seem to care what else is going on in our lives when they strike. When Harvey rushed in through Boyd Coble's door in late August, for example, it found grief: Coble's partner of 30 years had died only nine months before.Leaving home that night in the middle of the storm just intensified Coble's increasing sense of dread. "Bad things happen in threes," he remembers. "First my partner died, then came Harvey. I was just waiting for the third bad thing to happen."One week later, Coble was back home. Everything was still a mess, the floors were ruined, the walls, the insulation, the rugs, the furniture. It sounds overwhelming. But as Boyd describes this to me on the phone, he sounds so much different than he did in the shelter — like a completely different person. He's energetic, brighter. And, he tells me, he's not waiting anymore for something bad to happen.Everything is going to be OK now, he says — now that he is "back in his element." Now that he's home.
Michael Oreskes was hired to lead NPR's news and editorial operations in March 2015.Oreskes did not respond to multiple efforts to reach him for comment. NPR executives say that they cannot address individual personnel matters but that they take concerns of sexual harassment or other inappropriate workplace behavior seriously.After joining NPR in the spring of 2015, Oreskes encouraged staffers to reach out to him to discuss their careers during his visit to NPR West in Culver City, Calif. At the time Hersher had been working a series of temporary assignments for NPR, and she took him up on his offer during a subsequent visit to Washington. An afternoon meeting was pushed off into evening and an invitation to dinner at a seafood restaurant near Union Station.Hersher, now a reporter and producer on NPR's science desk, says she wanted to tell him about her belief that she would need to leave NPR to transform from a producer to a reporter. Her dinner with Oreskes became increasingly uncomfortable as the conversation veered into personal matters involving relationships and sex. At one point, she says, he referred to a former flame as his first "sex girlfriend."Hersher says the conversation made her uncomfortable."From my point of view, every little thing that he or I said pointed to the relative difference in power," she said. "Like he's the one with the power. He's the one who gets to decide what we talk about — and I am trying to keep up."Hersher said he gave her what seemed like a nonromantic hug at the train station afterward, and that he did not otherwise touch her or suggest any physical involvement.Still, Hersher said Tuesday, the entire evening felt as though it devalued her as a professional. She suddenly questioned why a senior executive would care about her career."I went to the train station, and I called my best friend; I cried on the phone to her," Hersher says. "I went home and then I cried to my boyfriend. It undercut my confidence in a way that was surprising to me."Hersher reported the incident to NPR's human resources division. The network formally rebuked Oreskes and informed other top network executives. Hersher said she felt satisfied with the company's response and that she experienced no retribution.Two colleagues at NPR confirmed that Hersher told them of the incident at the time. I did considerable reporting on the episode in spring 2016. At that time, Hersher was not willing to go on the record for a news story, and I was unable to confirm a pattern of behavior by Oreskes. The incident did not involve anything physical, and there was no force, retribution or request for a romantic involvement, and Hersher said she believed the network had held Oreskes appropriately accountable.At the time, this reporter and editors of that story — who did not include Oreskes or anyone who reported directly to him — concluded that the incident on its own did not rise to the level of national news.In a note to staff on Tuesday, NPR CEO Jarl Mohn encouraged employees to come forward if they have been harassed."We take these kinds of allegations very seriously," Mohn wrote. "If a concern is raised, we review the matter promptly. We take all appropriate steps to assure a safe, comfortable, and productive work environment for everyone at NPR. ... This is our NPR. And I will stand up for it, and every one of you."
House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., announces the outlines of a GOP overhaul of the tax code in September. The full bill's release is being delayed to Thursday.House Republicans announced late Tuesday that they would delay by one day the release of their long-awaited tax cut bill that GOP leaders have promised will be the most extensive overhaul of the tax code in a generation, as members clashed over curtailing popular tax breaks to pay for trillions of dollars in tax cuts for individuals and corporations.The bill was supposed to be unveiled on Wednesday, but House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, announced in a statement, "In consultation with President Trump and our leadership team, we have decided to release the bill text on Thursday."Republicans have promised that their legislation will slash taxes for businesses and individuals, simplify the complicated tax code and spur major economic growth. President Trump called on Congress to finalize the bill by Christmas."I want the House to pass a bill by Thanksgiving," Trump said during a meeting with business leaders at the White House on Tuesday. "I want all of the people standing by my side when we get ready to sign by Christmas."House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, R-Wis., later agreed with Trump, saying that the two were "linked" on the plan."We are ready," Ryan said. "We are excited, we're moving."Brady told reporters that staff would continue working through the night to negotiate the remaining sticking points, and his statement said that the schedule for his committee to begin its markup of the bill next Monday was still on.Ryan and other leaders hope the tax bill will be the best chance the Republican-held Congress has to enact one of Trump's key policy proposals. The legislation is expected fill in the gaps left by an earlier outline that promised to lower the top corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, trim the top individual tax rate from 39.6 percent to 35 percent and slash taxes the rate for small businesses to 25 percent. That outline left out how much it might cost to make those low rates possible and what existing tax breaks would be eliminated to help off-set the expense.Republicans struggled in recent weeks to decide which breaks to eliminate and members were still at odds over fears that the plan could raise taxes on some middle class families in high-cost of living states.House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, told reporters that members of his committee were still working to finalize the details. He also would not rule out making additional changes once the bill is released on Thursday."We'll continue on listening mode," Brady told reporters. "Stay tuned."Among the most controversial measures was a plan to reduce amount of money taxpayers could set aside for retirement in 401(k) plans without being taxed. Brady has explored a number of options, including making it easier for taxpayers to utilize other retirement accounts, but many members and outside groups have worried that the plan would gut the widely-popular savings incentives."Any changes we make are going to strengthen retirement," Brady said.There has also been widespread disagreement with the GOP over plans to make it harder for most families to claim popular itemized deductions, like a credit for mortgage interest. Republican leaders say their plan would reduce tax burden for most families by doubling the standard deduction from $12,000 for individuals to $24,000 for families and increasing the per-child tax credit.Republican leaders have suggested that the plan would keep an existing deduction for property taxes, but Brady said Tuesday that negotiations over state and local tax breaks were still ongoing.Many members also worry that leaders have not said which tax rates would apply to which tax payers. Republican want to trim the existing seven tax brackets to just three or four with rates of 12 percent, 25 percent, 35 percent and a possible higher rate for top earners. But Brady was unwilling to say which taxpayers would fall into which bracket or whether there would be an extra tax for the very-rich.Despite the uncertainty, Brady had said earlier on Tuesday the GOP plan was still on track."Our plan is to move forward on the current timetable," Brady said. "We certainly are listening very carefully to make sure we are delivering tax relief."Minutes before putting out a statement announcing that the bill would be delayed until Thursday, Brady told reporters that staff were working through the night to keep the bill on schedule.
The Los Angeles Dodgers pour onto the field after beating the Houston Astros in Game 6 of the World Series.Updated at 1:10 a.m. ETThe Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Houston Astros 3-1 in Game 6 of the World Series, evening the best-of-seven series at three games each and guaranteeing a Game 7 on Wednesday at Dodger Stadium.The Dodgers had trailed 1-0 until the bottom of the sixth inning when catcher Austin Barnes singled and Houston starter Justin Verlander hit L.A.'s second baseman Chase Utley. Center fielder Chris Taylor doubled to score Barnes. Shortstop Corey Seager's sacrifice fly scored Utley.Until then Verlander appeared to be in control of the game, holding the Dodgers to just one hit in five innings.The Dodgers added another run on a home run by left fielder Joc Pederson in the bottom of the seventh inning.Los Angeles Dodgers' Chris Taylor hit a RBI double off Houston Astros starting pitcher Justin Verlander during the sixth inning of Game 6 of the World Series Tuesday.For Houston, Game 6 was about their failure to capitalize on opportunities to get on the board. They scored their only run when Astros center fielder George Springer hit a home run off of Dodgers starter Rich Hill in the top of the third inning.Houston Astros' George Springer opened the scoring in Game 6 with a home run off LA's Rich Hill at Dodger Stadium.The Astros threatened to score in their half of the fifth, sixth and seventh innings, but each time they came up with nothing.In the top of the fifth inning, they had runners at second and third base with no outs after a single by catcher Brian McCann and a double by left fielder Marwin Gonzalez. Two outs later, and with an intentional walk to Springer loading the bases, third baseman Alex Bregman grounded out to short.In their half of the sixth, the Astros got two runners on a two-out single by first baseman Yuli Gurriel. Then McCann was hit by a pitch from Dodgers reliever Brandon Morrow. But again, Houston failed to score.Houston put two more runners on base in the seventh inning on a walk by right fielder Josh Reddick and an infield single by Springer. But the Astros couldn't get a timely hit after that, leaving a total of eight runners on base.Each of those scoring threats were stymied by the Dodgers relievers who combined for 4 1/3 scoreless innings after starter Rich Hill went 4 2/3 innings. Reliever Tony Watson was the game winner and Houston's Verlander took the loss, his first since being traded to the Astros in late August.
Los Angeles police officers forcibly removed Chavez Ravine residents like Aurora Vargas, who had been resisting the city's orders to leave their homes.Friday, May 8, 1959. It was a typically clear Los Angeles day, that would come to be known by the residents of Palo Verde — or what was left of them, anyway — as Black Friday.It was on that day that a group of sheriff's deputies arrived at the home of the Arechiga family, one of the neighborhood's few remaining families. The city had finally come to evict the stragglers. The officers walked up the stairs of the Arechiga home, then kicked the door in and forced their way into the living room. They brought along movers to quickly break apart and bring out the family's furniture, piece by piece.Children wailed. The elderly were escorted out. One woman was dragged, kicking and screaming by her arms and legs out the door and down the stairs by four deputies.For the next week, the Arechigas camped in front of the rubble that was once their home.Many aging Angelenos, who lived through the violent confrontations over the land upon which Dodgers Stadium was built, remain embittered toward the team.This October marks the first time in 29 years that the Los Angeles Dodgers are playing in the World Series. Sold-out crowds of over 50,000 fans have filled up Dodger Stadium in each of the team's first two home games.Today, half of Los Doyers fans are Latino — the majority of those Latino fans are of Mexican descent — according to a spokesperson for the team. But the relationship between the Dodgers and its Mexican-American fans had dark beginnings."The broadcast of these images [of the removal of the Palo Verde residents] on national television, live images on national television, left a very bitter legacy of racial tension between L.A.'s Mexican-American community and the Los Angeles Dodgers," said Eric Avila, a historian at UCLA. "This is the legacy of conflict upon which Dodger Stadium was was built."When the city initially began taking over the Chavez Ravine lands, it told residents of the neighborhoods there that the land would be for public housing, and that housing was promised to many of the Chavez Ravine residents who would be displaced. But those plans changed when when Norris Poulson, a conservative Republican, entered the mayoral race in Los Angeles and ran on an anti-public housing campaign using Red Scare tactics."[Poulson said] public housing was a secret communist strategy to create communist cells in the heart of downtown," Avila says.When Poulson won the mayoralty, those public housing plans withered and died.For years, the ravine sat in limbo, depopulated but for a few residents. But in 1958, the city reached a deal with Walter O'Malley, the owner of the Brooklyn Dodgers, to bring the team to Los Angeles. Per their plan, Dodger Stadium would be built on the empty land in Chavez Ravine.There was one thing in their way: the Mexican-American families who were holding out, and had never sold their properties. That included the Arechigas. For years after, many of the families that had been pushed out by the city and the Dodgers would gather for an annual reunion for their forgotten community.When she was an undergraduate at University of California at Berkeley, Melissa Arechiga remembered sitting in a classroom discussion on the history of Los Angeles and being surprised by seeing her family members in an image of the 1959 evictions. "I'm in a classroom with 300 students and I'm like, 'Whoa'—when they started talking to me about my family," she said. "I was just floored."When Melissa was growing up, her mother used to tell her stories about evictions, but she thought her mother was making it up. And she didn't realize that images of her relatives' violent removal had been immortalized.But the group also wants to remember the history of the Chavez Ravine neighborhoods, which the city deemed slums in the 1930s, but where a tight-knit community of over 1000 families flourished, nonetheless.There were weddings and quinceañeras and everyone was invited. Neighbors left their doors unlocked. They grew their own produce and even raised their own livestock. According to Arechiga, her mother has happy childhood memories of going up a dirt hill with pieces of cardboard, and sliding down the hill. "They were able to get through good times, bad times together because they had each other, because they had cultural capital and community support—that safety net," she said.She started Buried Under the Blue with Vicente Montalvo, whose grandparents were forced to sell their property in Palo Verde and left the neighborhood before the evictions became violent. His grandparents, who are in their 90s today, were neighbors with the Arechigas.Arechiga and Montalva said the group finds pushback from some fans who don't want to talk about that part of the team's past. "We have people who say... 'That was a long time ago!' Like 'get over it!'" said Arechiga.According to Avila, the UCLA professor, the evictions are part of a larger, complicated story of how both the Dodgers and the city's Latino communities have been defined by each other. "The other part of the story is just how important the Dodgers have been to the development of a homegrown Chicano/Latino identity in Los Angeles," he said. He said his father and his grandfather were both huge Dodgers fans.The explosion of the team's Latino fandom is usually attributed to one moment: the signing of Fernando Valenzuela in 1979. Valenzuela, was a humble 20-year-old pitcher from Sonora, Mexico, who few people had heard of, but he quickly developed into the team's unhittable ace. He became the first rookie to win the Rookie of the Year Award and the Cy Young, which goes to the league's best pitcher. He led the Dodgers to a World Series win in 1981 and fans of Mexican descent flocked to Dodgers Stadium to catch a glimpse of Valenzuela, a superstar in whom they could finally see themselves.One wonders how watching this celebration felt to the aging residents of the former Chavez Ravine, whose homes, schools and churches are buried under the stadium and its parking lot, and who vowed to never root for the Dodgers or attend any of their games."It's very easy to get on board with the Dodgers, It's very easy to celebrate their victories," said Avila, the historian. "It's not as easy to remember the conflicts that led to the arrival of the Dodgers in Los Angeles."
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (left) pauses while speaking during a press event with Republican leaders to discuss their tax plans on Sept. 27 in Washington, D.C.Republicans say their tax legislation will be great for the middle class. So why is it so unpopular?In pitching their tax plan to the country, Republicans say it would save the typical middle class American family between $1,200 and $1,400.But that may not be enough to buy widespread support for this plan because not everybody gets that amount, and the House and Senate bills contain some unpopular provisions.Dave Lewandowski, a resident of Grand Rapids, Mich., is married and has three children. He works for a company selling vitamins, water filters and other health-related products.The family's household income is about $90,000 and he estimates he'll save $600 under the House plan and about $1,800 under the Senate version.And he'd definitely be happy to get a tax cut."We're receiving a bit of a benefit at a time where it really helps," Lewandowski says. "We're trying to pay down some debt. We're looking forward to taking a vacation next year. This is a welcome benefit for me and my family."David Lewandowski of Grand Rapids, Mich., with his wife Ashley and their children (from left) Annie, Chaney and Noah. Lewandowski says he would be happy to get a tax cut but he doesn't like the way the plan favors corporations and the wealthy.Still, when it comes to the design of the overall tax plan itself, he's conflicted.Lewandowski says he votes for Republicans more often than Democrats, so it's not politics. But he says he's not sure the balance is right with the GOP plan's huge tax cut for corporations."Many people in the middle class will receive a benefit, but that benefit is going to be muted or small," he says, "whereas the bulk of the benefit is going to be felt by corporations and the wealthy."According to numbers from Congress' nonpartisan Joint Committee On Taxation, the wealthy and corporations do get a much bigger share of the benefits from the tax bills.And Lewandowski doesn't like something else about the Republican plans."It's not equally applied across it," he says. "And when you look at the fact that this is a federal, national tax reform, some people are going to be impacted a lot more than others. So I would rather it be more that all people are impacted in the same way."Ani McHugh, a high school English teacher in Delran, N.J., says the plan "essentially punishes taxpayers who are already paying more in taxes. I don't see how that's a fair approach or a reasonable approach."McHugh's husband is a police officer in the town where they live and they have two children. After checking with their tax adviser, she estimates the couple would end up paying between $3,000 and $5,000 more under the plan."I don't see how they can say this helps middle class people in New Jersey," she says.Something else bothers her about the legislation. As a teacher, McHugh buys books for her students and other school supplies. And under at least the House tax plan, she would no longer be allowed to write those off her taxes."It's just hard for me to wrap my head around the fact that corporations are getting huge tax cuts and the wealthy tax breaks, and I'm a teacher and I'm spending my own money on things that will help me teach and things that will help my students learn and I can't write that off," she says.Meanwhile she says that among the middle class people she sees around New Jersey, "everybody seems to be struggling and working harder and a lot of people have second jobs. And so when corporations get a permanent tax break and the wealthy get tax breaks and we're paying more, yeah, that's frustrating. ... It's infuriating."Multiple polls show that most Americans do not want a tax cut for the rich. That may be the biggest reason this tax overhaul is so unpopular.
Updated at 11:45 p.m. ETA jury in San Francisco has found Jose Ines Garcia Zarate, a homeless undocumented Mexican immigrant, not guilty of murder in the death of 32-year-old Kate Steinle two years ago in a case that became a flashpoint in the national debate on illegal immigration.As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump cited the Steinle killing as a justification for his intended crackdown on immigration.A disgraceful verdict in the Kate Steinle case! No wonder the people of our Country are so angry with Illegal Immigration.The jury of six women and six men acquitted the 45-year-old Garcia Zarate of murder in the first and second degrees, and the alternate charge of involuntary manslaughter.Jose Ines Garcia Zarate in a police booking photo. San Francisco jurors have returned a verdict in his trial for the fatal shooting of Kate Steinle, whose death played into the national debate on immigration.He was convicted on the lesser charge of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.Steinle was killed on July 1, 2015, while walking along a San Francisco pier arm-in-arm with her father.The basic question the jury had to decide was whether Garcia Zarate intentionally and willfully fired the single shot that killed Kate Steinle. The prosecution said that Garcia Zarate fired a handgun deliberately in Steinle's direction, seeking to harm her or others. The defense argued that the shooting was unintentional, that the defendant found the gun wrapped in a cloth under his seat at the pier and that it accidentally discharged. The defense also offered expert witnesses who testified that the bullet ricocheted off of the ground and traveled about 78 feet before striking Steinle.Kate Steinle's parents, Jim Steinle and Liz Sullivan walk to a courtroom for closing arguments in the trial on Nov. 20.The jury's decision indicates that it was convinced that the shooting was an accident.The gun was stolen four days before the killing from the parked car of a visiting Bureau of Land Management ranger. And even the prosecution agreed that there was no evidence linking Garcia Zarate to that robbery.The defendant had been deported five times. He was scheduled for a sixth deportation in 2015 while he was in federal custody for felony re-entry. Instead of deporting him, federal authorities sent him to San Francisco on a 20-year-old drug warrant for a small amount of marijuana.San Francisco prosecutors dropped the charge and the sheriff's department let him go, despite a federal detainer request. Under local sanctuary city rules, local law enforcement won't hold a person beyond the term of their incarceration. In the aftermath of the shooting, there was a lot of finger-pointing among local officials. San Francisco still won't honor a federal detainer request unless the detainee has committed a violent or serious felony in the past seven years.The city's sanctuary policies were not mentioned in the trial, and there were only brief references to the defendant's immigration status.The killing gained national attention, in part, because Republican presidential nominee Trump seized on it as he criticized Mexican immigrants and promised to build a wall at the border.Several months after Steinle's death, Trump claimed that she had been shot five times. She was shot only once.In his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention, Trump tried to link Democrat Hillary Clinton to the controversy."My opponent wants sanctuary cities. But where was sanctuary for Kate Steinle?" he asked."Donald Trump talks about Kate Steinle like he knows her. I've never heard a word from his campaign manager, I've never heard a word from him. It's disconcerting," Brad Steinle told CNN's Anderson Cooper."I don't want to be affiliated with someone who doesn't have the common courtesy to reach out and ask about Kate and our political views and what we want," he added.Federal authorities are studying their options for intervening in the case of Garcia Zarate. One federal source familiar with the case tells NPR's Carrie Johnson that federal charges are being "looked at hard."After the verdict was announced, the deputy director of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Thomas D. Homan, said in a statement, "ICE will work to take custody of Mr. Garcia Zarate and ultimately remove him from this country."Attorney General Jeff Sessions released a statement saying sanctuary city policies are dangerous:"While the State of California sought a murder charge for the man who caused Ms. Steinle's death — a man who would not have been on the streets of San Francisco if the city simply honored an ICE detainer — the people ultimately convicted him of felon in possession of a firearm. The Department of Justice will continue to ensure that all jurisdictions place the safety and security of their communities above the convenience of criminal aliens. I urge the leaders of the nation's communities to reflect on the outcome of this case and consider carefully the harm they are doing to their citizens by refusing to cooperate with federal law enforcement officers."
Whitney Duncan was given the choice of sending her daughter, Deklyn, 3, to stay with her grandmother in Jasper, Ga., while she entered rehab or lose her to foster care.A new government report says the number of children in the U.S. foster care system has increased for the fourth year in a row, due largely to an uptick in substance abuse by parents.The foster care population peaked at 524,000 in 2002 and dropped to about 397,000 cases by 2012.Government data also shows that drug abuse by a parent was a factor in 34 percent of the cases in 2016, up from 32 percent in 2015. About 92,000 children were removed from their homes due to the substance abuse of at least one parent.Indiana, Florida, Georgia and West Virginia, all grappling with the opioid crisis, are among the states with the largest one-year increases in the number of foster care children."The continued trend of parental substance abuse is very concerning, especially when it means children must enter foster care as a result," said Steven Wagner, acting assistant secretary for children and families at ACF.The data also reveals an increase in the number of adoptions from the U.S. child welfare system, from 54,000 in FY 2015 to 57,000 in FY 2016.The ACF recently awarded 18 grants totaling more than $12.5 million to improve the outcomes of children affected by a parent's or caregiver's substance abuse.Among its key findings:"At least half of the states in the U.S. have seen their foster care capacity decrease between 2012 and 2017. Either these states have fewer beds and more foster youth, or any increase in beds has been dwarfed by an even greater increase in foster children and youth."
The new Tesla Model 3 is displayed at the 2017 LA Auto Show. The company has struggled to meet its goal of producing thousands of the vehicles per week.You can see how different Tesla is from the rest of the car companies at a place like the LA Auto Show. At the Tesla booth, there's no glitz, or models leaning seductively. But it's swamped during a showing for journalists.One of  three Tesla car models on display at the show is the Model 3, aimed at the mass market. It's not only the car that's supposed to take Tesla mainstream but also the one to bring it to profitability. But CEO Elon Musk's company has missed its production goals, and analysts wonder whether he's spreading himself too thin.Rebecca Lindland, a senior analyst with Kelly Blue Book who is an admitted fan of Tesla and Musk, says the company's marketing plan is its bold vision. "Nothing Tesla does is normal," she says. That's part of the appeal of the company. "[Musk] pushes people to think further and faster, and we need people like that." But the Model 3, the new car Tesla is trying to build, is the company's make-or-break product: It's the company's promise of an affordable electric car."Well, for a normal company the answer would probably be no," says Jeremy Anwyl with Trucks.com. But, he adds, "Tesla is anything but normal, largely because of just the force of personality." He says Musk is able to take his various companies into places others just couldn't venture. The cult of personality around Musk allows him to raise capital easily and excite investors in a way that other CEOs can't.The ability to so quickly get money from capital markets comes with risk. "If the market ever lost just a little bit of confidence ... the ability to continue to finance the operations of the organization could get a lot, lot harder," Anwyl says. Jeffrey Osborne, a stock analyst with Cowen, says the big automakers don't just build cars and trucks efficiently, they build assembly lines and car plants efficiently.  For Osborne, one of the analysts who's been bearish on Tesla, now is the worst time for Tesla to be having rudimentary assembly line problems. He points to the turnover rate of top managers. Musk is "a tough guy to work for and you know it's a company that's going warp speed. I just wish he'd pause and pay attention to the Model 3," Osborne says.
Sens. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., Bob Corker, R-Tenn., and Ron Johnson, R-Wis., seen at a hearing earlier this month, held up floor action on Thursday evening over concerns about how to control the deficit if the GOP tax bill doesn't result in strong economic growth.Updated at 11:20 a.m. ET Senate Republicans continued maneuvering to pass their overhaul of the nation's tax code on Friday, possibly working around concerns by stern deficit hawks after an official estimate on Thursday said that the economic growth spurred by the plan would still leave a $1 trillion hole in the deficit. Two GOP holdouts, Sens. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Steve Daines of Montana, said they would support the bill Friday morning after getting concessions that they say will treat small businesses more favorably, and give them tax relief closer to the massive cuts that large corporations would get under the Republican tax plan.  The bill ran into a speed bump Thursday evening, as it had appeared to be speeding towards passage by the weekend, over concerns that the bill could fall far short of GOP promises of economic growth.Deficit hawks threatened to abandon the legislation over those concerns, sending leaders back to the drawing board to find ways to scale back the cost of the $1.4 trillion tax plan. The fight over the long-term cost of the tax overhaul could force leaders to scale back plans for permanent corporate rate cuts, greatly reducing the ambition of the tax overhaul.Progress on the bill ground to a sudden halt on Thursday evening after deficit hawks received word that their back up plan to keep the cost of the legislation under control would violate Senate budget rules.Senate Republican Conference Committee Chairman John Thune, R-S.D., told reporters Thursday that leaders were attempting to rework a plan to appease a small group of Senators — including Republican Sens. Bob Corker of Tennessee, Jeff Flake of Arizona and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin — who want assurances that the bill won't add to the deficit in the future."It's kind of a bit of a moving target," Thune said. "Hopefully they're going to get an agreement here pretty soon."Now that Johnson is on board, it could be possible for GOP leaders to pass the bill without Corker and Flake. But they would need every other Republican senator to vote yes. Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, was quoted as saying they would have the votes. Sens. Susan Collins, R-Maine, and James Lankford, R-Okla., are among a handful of Republicans who have spoken favorably about where the bill is headed, but have not fully committed to supporting it. Floor action stalled for about an hour on Thursday evening as senators huddled with the Senate parliamentarian. Walking out of that huddle, they believed the trigger mechanism would not fit Senate rules.Instead, leaders started discussing a plan that could gradually reduce some of the tax cuts laid out in their plan.Cornyn said Thursday night that other options were being discussed. The possibility under consideration now is fixing a date at which tax rates would increase, possibly in a gradual fashion, unless Congress acted again. But figuring out how to divide those eventual increases between the individual and corporate sides of the tax code remains uncertain."I think they could probably do something six years out, it would go up about half a percentage point," Cornyn said. "I think what they're talking about is some sort of stair-step."Sen. David Perdue, R-Ga., described the idea as "intense stimulus now, less intense stimulus later." Perdue says it's unlikely that a new package would be seen Thursday night, but he still thought final passage was possible Friday.And if they can pass the bill without Flake and Corker, such maneuvers may not be necessary. Many Republicans rejected the report, saying the estimate was based on incomplete data."I believe it's clearly wrong," Cornyn told reporters. "But that's just my opinion."NPR's Scott Detrow and Arnie Seipel contributed to this report.
If the White House approves a proposal to change the way the government collects race and ethnicity data, white people in the U.S. may be asked to check off boxes about their ethnic background. On this 2010 census form, answering "white" was enough to respond to the race question.Updated Dec. 6"White" has been a constant of the U.S. census.Census takers determined who counted as "white" or any other race. That changed in 1960, when U.S. residents were first allowed to self-report their race. Since then, just answering "white" has been enough to respond to the race question.But the upcoming census in 2020 may ask those who identify as white to explore their family tree to share their ethnic background as well. Anyone who checks off the "white" box could also mark boxes for groups such as "German," "Irish" and "Polish" or write in another option.Dec. 1 was the self-imposed deadline for the White House's Office of Management and Budget, which sets standards for this type of information for all federal agencies, to announce its decisions on the proposals. It's unclear now when an announcement will be released and how the timing may impact the Census Bureau's upcoming report to Congress, due by the end of March 2018, on the final wording of the 2020 census questions.Those questions about ancestry and ethnicity, though, were presented separately from the race question. Asking about race and ethnicity together in a combined question may seem like a minor, technical detail. But some scholars who study white identity say it could have major implications.The federal government has distilled whiteness into a bureaucratic definition to collect information for redrawing legislative districts, enforcing anti-discrimination laws and measuring health effects. Since 1977, "white" in government data describes anyone "having origins in any of the original peoples" of Europe, the Middle East or North Africa. (Another proposal the White House is considering could reclassify people of Middle Eastern or North African descent as a distinct racial group separate from "white.")For many white people, though, whiteness today has more to do with their experience living in the U.S. than their ties to "original peoples." "The ethnicity component for whites is pretty much meaningless now for people that have been in the U.S. for so long their ethnicity is so diluted," says Charles Gallagher, a sociologist at La Salle University in Philadelphia who studies whiteness."At one time if you're Italian or if you're Irish in the U.S., it meant quite a bit in terms of having access to resources. That is just no longer the case," he says.Still, Gallagher worries about the timing of this proposed change to how the Census Bureau asks about race and ethnicity in light of growing attention on white nationalist groups. "This was done basically through a lens of multiculturalism that allowed whites to embrace their own ancestry, as well as other groups doing the same thing. How it could get used in this climate, I think, is a little different," says Gallagher."[The alt-right] people are going to mark 'German' or they're going to mark a category that allows them to connect to this idea of Europe," he says. "But that's a very small part of the population."Terry Blastenbrei of Kansas City, Mo., who has identified as white on the census, shares those concerns. "We see some folks as whiter than others as it were. And so that's, I think, a potential issue that we could see develop if we start breaking it down even further," says Blastenbrei, who works as an operations manager for what he describes as progressive political campaigns.Still, if ethnicities are added under "white" on the 2020 census, Blastenbrei says he would consider checking off multiple boxes."A lot of people assume by looking at my last name that I'm probably German, but I come from so many different backgrounds," he says, citing ancestors from other European countries including Luxembourg, France and Poland.A "bad idea"?For Painter, the historian, drawing ethnic distinctions among white people on the 2020 census could be seen as harkening to earlier ideas about white identity that valued Anglo-Saxon heritage."That is a throwback to the early 20th century when educated Americans and noneducated Americans thought there was more than one white race," she says, referring to days when skull measurements were used to determine racial superiority among white people.Painter does not approve of the government asking white people about their ethnic backgrounds in 2020. The state of white identity today, she adds, is "utter confusion," largely undefined between two poles of being white — either sharing the extremist views of white nationalists or not having a race in order to be an individual instead."Given that white identity operates most easily in the shadows, that is to say it's not queried, I think bringing it out and asking people to dwell on it is a bad idea," Painter says.Given that white identity operates most easily in the shadows, that is to say it's not queried, I think bringing it out and asking people to dwell on it is a bad idea.Nell Irvin Painter"I would rather be named and visible in all of my diversity," says Brodkin, who says she would check off the "white" box and write in "Jewish" on her census form in 2020.Still, Brodkin says Jewish identity may be hard to fit into the boxes the Census Bureau is considering. The bureau is not allowed to require people to report their religious affiliation. But some Jewish people who identify as white on the census consider their ethnicity as Jewish, which census participants would have to write in themselves."I think the debate would be, 'Gee, we're not really white,' " Brodkin says. "Another would be, 'I'm Sephardic ... and there's no place for me here.' "The Census Bureau must submit the final wording of the upcoming census questions to Congress by the end of March 2018.
Updated at 8:15 p.m. ETHouse Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., says the rash of sexual harassment and sexual assault allegations coming to light could end up being a "watershed moment" in changing the culture — including on Capitol Hill — that has covered them up far too long."I think we're all horrified at these stories we've been seeing unfold in the last few weeks. I think we're all realizing that sexual harassment in America is absolutely pervasive and it's got to go and we need to end it," Ryan continued. "And nowhere more is this important to set a standard and an example than elected officials. We should be held to a high standard."Politicians in both parties have been accused of sexual misconduct in recent weeks. On Thursday, Ryan called for Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., to resign after a former aide made public her allegations of sexual harassment against the veteran lawmaker. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., also called on Conyers to step down. The Michigan Democrat has been hospitalized for stress.Another accuser also came forward on Thursday against Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., alleging that he groped her during a 2003 photo opportunity, bringing his total accusers to five women who say the senator groped or forcibly kissed them in recent weeks. The Senate Ethics Committee confirms it has launched an initial inquiry into the allegations against Franken.Meanwhile, Republicans are continuing to grapple with Alabama GOP Senate nominee Roy Moore, who has been accused by multiple women of sexual assault when they were teens and he was in his 30s. Several women say he pursued them romantically, and one woman said he had sexually assaulted her when she was 14.Inskeep asked Ryan about the differences between the allegations against Moore — which the House speaker reiterated he believed were "very, very credible" — and the accusations against Trump.The speaker said he was "focused on Congress" because that's where Moore wants to go. "My job here as speaker of the House is to help make sure that Congress is an institution that we're proud of and that's what I'm focused on," he said.Asked again about the differences, Ryan said, "I haven't spent my time reviewing the difference in these two cases."Ryan admitted, "It's no secret that [Trump] and I have had our differences of opinions," but he underscored they still align on policy issues and goals."What I see is a president who is fighting for the things that I'm fighting for. I see a president who's fighting for an agenda that will make a positive difference in people's lives," Ryan said. "Is this president unconventional? No two ways about it. He's very unconventional. But if we make good by the American people by actually improving their lives and fixing problems and finding solutions that are bothering them? That's a good thing."Ryan told NPR that, as a father, the issue is a personal one for him as he has watched the swirl of scandal over the past few weeks."I want my daughter to grow up in a country — she's 15 years old — where she is empowered and respected. Wherever she goes, wherever she works, and whatever she does. And I think nowhere should that be more obvious and apparent than working here on Capitol Hill," Ryan said."So I think here in Congress we should set ourselves to standards that we expect of other people," the House speaker added. "We should set high standards for ourselves, so that we can be role models and set examples, and clearly people have been falling short of that, and I think we always have to endeavor to do a better job on that."Congress has recently passed legislation to adopt mandatory training on harassment and discrimination for lawmakers and Capitol Hill employees. In a news conference on Thursday, Ryan applauded the legislation but also said, "This is an important step, but it's one step."
Bosnian viewers watch as Slobodan Praljak brings a small glass of liquid to his lips at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on Wednesday. Praljak, who had just had his 20-year sentence for war crimes upheld, ingested the liquid and declared "I have just drunk poison." He died just hours later.It happened in the span of a few confused minutes.Moments after hearing that his 20-year sentence for war crimes had been upheld, Slobodan Praljak defied the admonitions of his judges, declared his innocence a final time — and with eyes wide, as if shocked himself at what he was doing, put a tiny glass to his lips and gulped deeply. "I just drank poison," he exclaimed after lowering the glass. And the presiding judge asked for the curtains to be closed.The end came quickly. Praljak died within hours Wednesday. But as Dutch authorities open their investigation into the incident at the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, one difficult question promises to persist much longer: How exactly did the former Bosnian Croat general manage to commit suicide in a high-security courtroom in The Hague, Netherlands, and in front of viewers streaming the video live around the world?There is reason — besides his swift death — to believe Praljak's declaration that he had indeed taken poison."There was a preliminary test of the substance in the container and all I can say for now is that there was a chemical substance in that container that can cause death," Dutch prosecutor Marilyn Fikenscher told The Associated Press. That said, the official cause of death will have to wait until an autopsy is completed.Nenad Golcevski, spokesperson for the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, addresses the media Wednesday at The Hague, Netherlands, hours after Slobodan Praljak declared his innocence and apparently consumed poison in the courtroom.Still, it remains unclear how Praljak managed to acquire that substance and smuggle the vial into the courtroom."What people are surprised about," Schultz continued, "is that there weren't more measures of prevention taken on this last day of the court, where you knew the whole world was going to be watching, that every precaution wasn't taken to make sure nobody could pull anything like this."Similar incidents have happened at the tribunal.Many Croats, including those at the highest levels of the country's government, have vehemently objected to the court's decision to uphold Praljak's sentence.Plenkovic said the Croatian government plans to "consider available legal and political mechanisms to challenge the allegations."Residents of the Bosnian city of Mostar light candles Wednesday night in tribute to convicted war criminal Slobodan Praljak."I came here to support our generals and pay respect to General Praljak who could not bear injustice and made his final verdict," one veteran of the wars of the '90s told the wire service. "He is our pride and hero."But the response to Praljak's death was far from unanimous in Croatia."A lawfully convicted war criminal committed suicide," Croat politician Goran Beus Richembergh wrote on Facebook, according to CNN. "The attempts of the HDZ (Croatian Democratic Union) to instrumentalize the Parliament of Croatia to reject the Tribunal's lawful verdict with a special statement, and to observe a minute of silence for a convicted war criminal, are unacceptable and scandalous."
President Donald Trump speaks during a rally on Wednesday in St. Charles, Mo.Updated at 6:47 p.m. ETOne of the nation's oldest holiday celebrations took place Thursday evening on the Ellipse next to White House — the annual lighting of the National Christmas Tree. It is a tradition that dates back to the Coolidge administration in the 1920s and was President Trump's and first lady Melania Trump's first time taking part in the event since moving into the White House.The ceremony comes a day after the president reiterated a pledge he's echoed many times since becoming a candidate in 2015 to end the so-called war on Christmas. At a speech Wednesday in Missouri to publicize the GOP tax overhaul expected to come up for a vote in the Senate this week, President Trump kicked off his remarks by saying: "I told you that we would be saying Merry Christmas again, right?"Here's a closer look at the president's claim.CLAIM: President Trump will return the phrase Merry Christmas to the White House  "With Trump as your president, we are going to be celebrating Merry Christmas again, and it's going to be done with a big, beautiful tax cut." While it is still unclear if congressional Republicans can deliver that tax overhaul Trump is so eager to sign into law, checking to see if "Merry Christmas" actually left presidential vernacular is a bit easier to answer.First a little context.President Trump's charge that "you don't see Merry Christmas anymore" appeared to be directed at his predecessor former President Barack Obama and the apparent claim that Obama seemed to favor the more inclusive seasonal phrase "Happy Holidays."Some of those who share President Trump's view of the previous administration point to the Obama White House's official holiday cards that read "Happy Holidays." Former Rep. Joe Walsh, who is now a conservative pundit, tweeted Wednesday:"The Trump family's first Christmas card contains a word that was noticeably absent from all eight of Obama's Christmas cards: CHRISTMAS!"But a quick search of the Web and social media returns many examples of when Obama used the phrase "Merry Christmas." In fact, in his weekly address on Christmas Eve 2016, literally the first words out of the former president's mouth were: "Merry Christmas, everybody."Former President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama in 2016Here are tweeted photos from the prior years:As one journalist pointed out on social media this week, the Obama administration said "Merry Christmas" annually for eight years.Well, perhaps Trump was suggesting the George W. Bush administration did not say "Merry Christmas"? Nope, that administration did so too, including in 2008 when former President Bush spoke to U.S. troops stationed in Iraq.How about the Clinton administration? President Bill Clinton did so too.Former President and First Lady Bill and Hillary Clinton wish Americans Merry Christmas in Dec. 2000So the reality is, as best we can tell, "Merry Christmas" never left the White House.
Chalfonte LeNee Queen of San Diego grappled with violent vomiting episodes for 17 years until she found out her illness was related to her marijuana use.For 17 years, Chalfonte LeNee Queen suffered periodic episodes of violent retching and abdominal pain that would knock her off her feet for days, sometimes leaving her writhing on the floor in pain."I've screamed out for death," says Queen, 48, who lives in San Diego. "I've cried out for my mom, who's been dead for 20 years, mentally not realizing she can't come to me."Queen lost a modeling job after being mistaken for an alcoholic. She racked up tens of thousands of dollars in medical bills, and her nausea interrupted her sex life. Toward the end of her illness, the 5-foot-9-inch woman weighed just 109 pounds.Throughout the nearly two decades of pain, vomiting and mental fog, Queen visited the hospital about three times a year, but doctors never got to the bottom of what was ailing her. By 2016, she thought she was dying, that she "must have some sort of cancer or something they can't detect," Queen recalls.Doctors say it's difficult to treat the condition. There is no cure other than to quit using marijuana, and many patients are skeptical that cannabis is making them sick, so they keep using it and their vomiting episodes continue.Doctors can do little to relieve the symptoms, since traditional anti-nausea medications often don't work and there are no pills to prevent the onset of an episode. Patients may need intravenous hydration and hospital stays until the symptoms subside."That's really frustrating as an emergency physician," says Moulin. "I really like to make people feel better."Diagnosing the syndrome can also be frustrating and expensive. There is no blood test to link the stomach ailment with marijuana use, so physicians often order pricey CT scans and lab tests to rule out other medical problems.The vomiting link to cannabis is counterintuitive to many, because of its widely known reputation as an anti-nausea remedy for cancer patients.Dr. John Coburn, an emergency physician at Kaiser Permanente in Sacramento, Calif., says his department sees the cannabis-related vomiting illness every day.Cameron Nicole Beard, 19, of East Moline, Ill., said she struggled to believe her doctors about the link between pot and severe vomiting."Who wants to be told you can't smoke marijuana, when you think marijuana can help?" says Beard, while recovering from a marijuana-related vomiting episode at a University of Iowa hospital in Iowa City, Iowa, last month. She said she had lost 20 pounds in 10 days.Heard says the Colorado cases seem to have leveled off. But without hard data, and because the overall numbers are small, it's hard to say for sure. He doesn't believe cases of the pot syndrome increased after recreational use was legalized in 2012, because chronic users probably already had medical marijuana cards.Queen is still struggling to completely quit marijuana, but her symptoms are down to a dull stomachache. She now smokes a couple of times a day, compared with her near-constant use in the past. She says it's the only thing that works for her depression and anxiety.Queen is back to a healthy weight and hasn't been to the hospital in a year. She says she wouldn't want to discourage anybody from smoking weed; she just wants people to know heavy use can bring them some serious misery."Now, if I get sick, as sad as I'll be and as upset and disappointed with myself as I would be, at least it's a freaking choice," she says.
South Koreans watch North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's televised New Year's address, at the Seoul Railway Station on Monday. Kim said the United States should be aware that his country's nuclear forces are now a reality, not a threat.In his annual New Year's address on Monday, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un warned the United States that his country's completed nuclear arsenal is now a button-push away."The U.S. should know that the button for nuclear weapons is on my table," he said, according to the Associated Press translation, in a speech carried by state television. "The entire area of the U.S. mainland is within our nuclear strike range. ... The United States can never start a war against me and our country."His threats follow a year marked by frequent missile launches and a nuclear test that fueled heated exchanges between him and President Trump. But Kim said in his New Year speech that nuclear powers will not be used unless the North is provoked."This year we should focus on mass producing nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles for operational deployment," Kim added. "These weapons will be used only if our security is threatened."Kim's hostile comments were offset by a diplomatic message. In his address, he also called for warming relations with South Korea. He said the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang would be a "good opportunity" to present a more united Korean nation."The Winter Olympic games that will be held soon in the South will be a good opportunity to display the status of the Korean nation and we sincerely wish that the event will be held with good results," he said.
The site of a plane crash in Punta Islita, Guanacaste, Costa Rica, on Sunday, that killed 10 American tourists and two Costa Rican crew members aboard, leaving no survivors.Updated at 9:55 p.m. ETThe Costa Rican government says a plane crash in Costa Rica on Sunday has killed all 12 people aboard.The aircraft was carrying 10 American tourists and two Costa Rican pilots when it came down in the mountainous region of Punta Islita, about 140 miles west of its destination, the capital of San José. The cause of the crash is not yet known. Reuters reports:"There are no people alive," Security Minister Gustavo Mata said, adding that autopsies would be needed to confirm the total number and identities of victims because their remains were badly burned. The AP adds:At a news conference, Enio Cubillo, director of Costa Rica Civil Aviation, said the Nature Air charter flight took off just after noon Sunday from Punta Islita and was headed for the capital of San Jose when it crashed.Cubillo said the same plane was delayed in arriving that morning in Punta Islita from San Jose due to strong winds.
Fireworks light the sky above the Quadriga at the Brandenburg Gate shortly after midnight in Berlin, Germany, Sunday, Jan. 1, 2017.Thousands of party-goers are expected to see in the New Year at Berlin's iconic Brandenburg Gate where an official party and firework display are planned. As usual, security will be tight with road blocks and an increased police presence of some 1, 600 officers. But this year, female revelers attending the open air event will also be able to access a women-only safety zone staffed by the German Red Cross.The measures are being introduced by the police for the first time in Berlin because of concerns about sexual assaults.Anja Marx, spokesperson for the organizers of the Berlin event, says a similar set-up worked very well at Oktoberfest in Munich this year, adding that psychologists would also be available in the safety zone.Police targeted migrants after many of the victims described the perpetrators as looking North African or Middle Eastern.Although hardly any prosecutions were ever made, fears soon spread about the large number of refugees and migrants who had arrived in Germany in 2015. While many Germans initially supported Angela Merkel's decision to allow asylum-seekers to come straight to Germany, the attacks on New Year's Eve in Cologne and, on a smaller scale, in other German cities, heralded a change in public mood.Consequently, Merkel's conservative bloc lost more than a million voters to the anti-Islam, populist Alternative for Germany party (AfD) in the September election. The AfD is the first right-wing party to enter the Bundestag in more than half a century.The issue of migration continues to cause tensions as Merkel struggles to build a coalition government.Following the collapse in talks with the Green party and the libertarian Free Democrats, Merkel's former coalition partner, the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), have agreed to start negotiations next week.But immigration will prove a major hurdle. The SPD are against Merkel's conservative bloc's proposal to introduce an annual upper limit on asylum-seekers. Both the SPD and Merkel's Christian Democrats worry that a repeat of attacks on the scale of those that happened in Cologne two years ago could politically benefit the right-wing AfD party. Nonetheless, the move to set up a safety zone for female party-goers in Berlin is not welcomed by all, even from within Merkel's own party.Antonia Niecke, chairperson of the Christian Democrats' youth wing in Hamburg, argues that safety zones for women assume that sexual assault is a given and, knowing that, questions how women can really be expected to enjoy New Year's celebrations.Criticism has also come from the German police, despite the fact that the safety zone has been set up by the capital's own police force. Rainer Wendt, head of Germany's police union, told a regional paper on Saturday that the apparent need for safety zones implies that public space is unsafe, indicating "the end of equality, freedom of movement and freedom of choice." Wendt says women should feel safe everywhere.
New York Police Department officers prepare for New Year's Eve celebrations in Manhattan's Times Square in New York.New Year's Eve celebrations are just hours away. And police departments around the country have been preparing for months for the celebrations. New York and Las Vegas, the sites of recent attacks, will see more security than they have in years.The local police department has doubled the number of rapid response teams in case of an incident."In previous years we had spotters in elevated position throughout the downtown area and the strip corridor," said Las Vegas's sheriff, Joe Lombardo. "This year, along with those spotters, they'll be accompanied by snipers."The federal government has brought in additional medics and medical supplies as a precaution, he said. Revelers will not be allowed to bring backpacks, oversized purses, or strollers onto the strip.There will be more than 300 National Guard troops, double the usual number. Some 15,000 police are deployed over three days. A federal coordination team will be on the ground to respond to any incidents. This is the only New Year's Eve celebration in the U.S. that federal officials designated at the highest risk level.On New Year's Day, federal officials have also designated the Tournament of Roses Parade and Rose Bowl football game in Pasadena, Calif., with its highest risk designation, like Las Vegas. There's a federal coordination team in place there, too.Across the country, New York is preparing to welcome some 2 million people to its celebrations. It's going to be chilly in Times Square – lows tonight are at just 8 degrees.NYPD Commissioner James O'Neill says the party, which features performances from Neil Diamond and Mariah Carey, is going to have its tightest security in years. "The bottom line is this: there's much the public will see, and there's much the public will not see."In that area, they're closing and sealing 125 parking parking garages and deploying uniformed detectives to every hotel. They're going to be using dogs that are vapor wake, meaning they're better at sniffing out explosives in moving crowds. And compared to previous years, they'll have more snipers, more heavy weapons teams and bomb squad personnel, and more police on the ground.There are also going to be some 1,000 surveillance cameras in the area, said James Waters of the department's counterterrorism bureau.He explained what party-goers will see as they enter the heavily guarded Times Square perimeter, marked by cement blocks and city vehicles. They'll pass a vapor wake dog. Then, "they'll go through a magnetometer or they will be wanded for weapons. Then at some point they'll come through a table where they'll have their bags inspected."Then, they will repeat this entire process in a security pen, he says, before entering the celebrations.
Fireworks explode over Sydney Harbour during New Year's Eve celebrations in Sydney, Australia.Over 26 hours and across 39 time zones, the world is celebrating the end of 2017.New Year's celebrations kicked off in Samoa, Christmas Island and New Zealand as those countries were the first where the clock struck midnight. Here in the U.S., many events are set to occur under heightened security, including in Las Vegas, which is still reeling from the deadliest mass shooting in the nation's modern history three months ago.In Australia, revelers in Sydney Harbour already celebrated the new year with a rainbow display of fireworks and lights to honor recently passed legislation legalizing gay marriage in the country.People across Asia rang in the new year, as many Japanese assembled at Shinto shrines to take part in traditional prayers for peace and good fortune. People at Tokyo's Zojoji Temple took turns hitting a giant bell 108 times at midnight, an annual practice conducted at other Japanese temples.An entertainer performs during New Year's Eve celebrations in Auckland, New Zealand. New Zealand is one of the first major countries in the world to ring in the New Year.In Beijing, merrymakers braved frigid temperatures as they counted down to the new year at Yongdingmen Gate, a reconstructed version of the Ming dynasty-era gateway. Police in the Philippines reported that scores of people were injured by firecrackers in raucous celebrations hours before midnight.The new year is still hours away in the U.S., but hundreds of thousands of people have already started funneling through tight security in New York's Times Square, where police expect nearly 2 million people to gather for the New Year's Eve ball drop at midnight.In Boston, organizers cancelled a parade and fireworks over the Boston Common as forecasters predicted temperatures to plummet below freezing on Sunday night.Residents in fox makeup participate in the Oji Fox parade to thank the outgoing and welcome the incoming year at the Oji Inari shrine in Tokyo.Here are highlights from New Year's Eve celebrations set to occur across the planet:A man leaves a carnation outside Reina nightclub as people have gathered to remember the victims of a deadly New Year's attack a year ago, in Istanbul.
An investigator heads to the scene of shooting Sunday,  in Highlands Ranch, Colo. Authorities in Colorado say one deputy has died and multiple others were wounded, along with two civilians, in a shooting that followed a domestic disturbance in suburban Denver.The Douglas County Sheriff's office south of Denver says a suspect fired more than 100 rounds in a shooting that killed one police officer and wounded four others, along with two civilians, on Sunday morning.The slain officer was 29-year-old Zackari Parrish, who had worked for the Douglas County Sheriff's Office for about seven months. A motorcade escorted the body of the fallen officer from a nearby hospital in Littleton, Colo.The four other officers who were injured are in stable condition, and the two civilians suffered non-life-threatening injuries.The Sheriff's office reports that an unidentified suspect was shot dead.Spurlock described the incident as an "ambush-type attack on our officers." After receiving a disturbance call, officers arrived at the apartment of two male roommates at about 5:15 a.m. and were let inside by one of them, he says. While deputies were questioning the man, the gunman barricaded himself in a room before firing on the officers shortly before 6 a.m.The officers "were shot very, very quickly," Spurlock told reporters. "They all went down almost within seconds of each other."https://t.co/6zZ35XnX50A SWAT team responded to the scene, according to a spokeswoman for the Sheriff's office, and a major highway south of the city was shut down.The Sheriff's office tweeted that "due to the size and scope of this investigation an emergency shelter has been set up" at a nearby recreation center. In a "code red" alert, the sheriff's office told residents to shelter in place, avoid windows and stay away from exterior walls.
Owners of iPhones from several states sued Apple Inc. for not disclosing sooner that it issued software updates deliberately slowing older-model phones so aging batteries lasted longer.Apple had a message for its customers this past week: "We apologize." While this apology might help on the public relations front, the legal issues are another matter.Broadly, the lawsuits cover contract law claims — saying that Apple harmed something the consumer owned and wasn't transparent about it — as well as consumer protection violations."You changed my phone in a harmful way [and] didn't tell me you were doing that," Rory Van Loo tells NPR's Lauren Frayer. Van Loo is a law professor at Boston University who focuses on technology and regulation.The claims allege that the deception may have caused consumers to buy a new phone when instead they could have just bought a new battery. For the plaintiffs to succeed in the fraud claims, they will need to prove that Apple intended to promote new phone sales by slowing down old phone sales."For all claims [plaintiffs] will need to prove some kind of harm," Van Loo says. "They're going to need to show that Apple intentionally withheld information about slowing down the phones" and that customers would have made a different decision.Though these lawsuits face a bit of an uphill battle, Van Loo says Apple should be nervous."For one, Apple has lost a number of cases across the country on some similar arguments in recent years," he says.Apple's argument, and one that they Van Loo says they may use again, is that users are told in the fine print of software updates that "things may go wrong.""Apple is not going to be protected by what they put in the fine print," he says. "You have to be very specific about what you say in the fine print, and as far as I'm aware, it didn't anywhere say, 'We may slow down your phones with our updates.' "While good news for future customers and in the court of public opinion, Van Loo says it doesn't free them from the potential legal liability.Apple's apology "is not going to protect them from what they did last month and last year," he says.
Crowds will gather again for New Year's Eve celebrations in New York's Times Square, but Twitter has other suggestions for midnight entertainment.It all started with a tweet from Phil Collins. In a now-viral post from earlier this month, the musician suggested people cue up his song "In the Air Tonight" so the iconic drum fill rings out at midnight on New Year's Eve. If you play 'In The Air Tonight’ by Phil Collins on December 31st at 11:56:40 the drum break will play right as the clock strikes midnight. Start off your new year right.In true 2017 fashion, the tweet lead to a meme, and the Twitterverse lit up with other ideas for climactic musical moments to ring in the new year. If you play “Wrecking Ball” by Miley Cyrus at exactly 11:57:10 on December 31st, you’ll hear “I came in like a Wrecking Ball” as the clock strikes midnight. Enter 2018 the right way.If Guy Lombardo's rendition of  "Auld Lang Syne" — the night's traditional chestnut — is too stodgy, some more upbeat suggestions popped up. Those include Death Cab for Cutie's "The New Year," Toto's "Africa" and Tina Turner's "The Best."  If livening up your goodbye to 2017 isn't exactly what you had in mind, fear not. Twitter has you covered, too. Several fans of the avant-garde suggest cueing up the Zen-inspired John Cage masterpiece "4'33." If you play John Cage's 4'33" at exactly 11:57:12pm on New Year's Eve, the part where you have an introspective breakdown about the arbitrary nature of the very concept of "years" will happen exactly at midnight. Kick off 2018 the right way. Or don't, whatever, nothing changes.As in, the most famous 4 1/2 minutes of silence ever composed — maybe something to help you snooze into 2018, if you like.NPR's Isabel Dobrin in Digital News produced this story for the Web.
Mine Cicek, an assistant professor at the Mayo Clinic, processes samples for the All of Us program.Proponents say this big data approach to medicine will be revolutionary. Critics aren't so sure.The plan is to recruit a million Americans to sign up for a program that will not only gather all sorts of medical data about them but will also follow them for at least a decade, possibly much longer. Their electronic medical records could end up in huge databases. The physical samples of blood and urine will end up in an industrial park in Rochester, Minn.Power cords drop down from the ceiling to lab benches and robotic instruments, lined up row after row. These machines will help take the grunt work out of sorting through what will eventually be 34 million samples, gathered from all across America.At the moment, the project is limited to pilot studies, with fewer than 100 samples a day coming off the UPS and FedEx trucks to be sorted, centrifuged and ultimately plunged in the deep freeze. But when the operation is fully up to speed, the lab may receive specimens from a thousand participants a day.Technicians examine part of a 74-foot-long freezer. Robots inside the freezer will handle millions of specimens and store them in even colder freezers inside.Cicek takes me into another cavernous part of the warehouse, filled not only with ordinary looking freezers but also with one behemoth — 74 feet long and more than 15 feet wide. It's bigger than a railroad boxcar.We loop around to the front, which has a glowing green slit, delineating the narrow freezer door.Inside, robots pick up the samples, read bar codes stamped on them and store them in individual freezers hidden inside. The robot works in a freezer set to minus 20 degrees Celsius, sorting samples into smaller freezers kept at minus 80 C (or minus 112 degrees Fahrenheit). People only enter the freezer if there is a problem inside.When everything is up and running, Cicek says, the incoming tubes of blood will be processed by a fully automated system. All she'll have to do is pick up boxes of samples and feed them into this freezer.And the scientific output for this enterprise? That is less tangible at the moment.His job is to build it and then make the data widely available — to top biomedical researchers as well as to community colleges and even high schools, so all sorts of people can dive into the data and try to extract meaning from it.Echoes of the human genome projectIn some ways, this project is akin to the original effort to sequence the human genome more than a decade ago. It's not an end in itself; it's a tool. The idea is to bring the big data revolution that has reshaped online commerce and social media to science. Ultimately, the information could help make medicine more personal and precise.Scientists don't yet have a concrete plan, but Dishman sketches out the goals. "We keep looking at diseases in isolation," he says. But by looking at entire genomes, he hopes scientists will get a better idea about how diseases are interconnected."The All of Us research program is really trying to bring a diversity of people, of health conditions, and a diversity of data sets to try to understand us more in our complexity," he says.Scientists might scour this pile of data for unexpected patterns or dive into it looking for answers to specific questions.Dishman, who has lived through a 23-year odyssey with kidney disease and kidney cancer, uses his experience as an example. "I had $6 million of care. Now looking back at it, scientists tell me that 90 percent of everything we ever did to me was destined to be wrong.""I'm nervous about sharing this story because it is hopeful," Dishman says. "I also know there's a lot of science, but also a lot of luck this worked for me."Still, he regards his story as a lesson about what the future could bring, in a world where genetic data are merged with information from medical records, exercise monitoring gear and whatever else can be put into a giant database for analysis. The hoped-for output of this will be "precision medicine."Millions invested, future benefits unknownGathering huge data sets may be useful for merchants trying to suss out consumer spending patterns, but he cautions that in biology, it may lead to more confusion than clarity. That is because many health conditions involve hundreds of genes, and the pattern is different in every individual. As it is, the more scientists look the more variants they find. So, he says, think about what that will look like when they have gathered a million samples."Bigger and bigger samples will just in a way identify more and more very rare or very weak effects, and the upshot will be each person will become even more different in terms of the identifiable genetic effects," Weiss predicts.When the human genome was sequenced, many scientists hoped they would quickly be able to identify the common genes that are responsible for common diseases, like diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and so on. That simply didn't pan out. Common diseases don't have common genetics. Weiss says it's time to cut our losses pursuing that concept."I think we're already at the diminishing returns point for many of the complex traits that important to our society in terms of health."The solutions to these common conditions lie largely in changing diets, exercise habits and tobacco addiction. Focusing genetic resources on diseases that do have strong genetic components makes a lot of sense, he says."But pouring more and more investment into these huge studies based on the idea that if you search enough computer data you will get an answer, I think is a false promise," he says.He would rather take the money being spent on All of Us and use it to work on gene therapies for diseases that have a clear genetic cause, such as muscular dystrophy or Huntington's disease. "And once those [therapies] are developed — which I think they will be because I think humans are really good at engineering — then we can extend to the less clear-cut genetic traits."Meanwhile, if the goal is to improve the health of our population, he says, "let's spend money on dietary exposures, exercise exposures, all the things that we know about to reduce the frequency of the kinds of diseases that we're spending so much money to try to treat is if they were genetic."Given all the momentum built up behind the precision medicine initiative, Weiss is not voicing a popular point of view. But the retired geneticist says he has no ax to grind — and no brilliant insights about what would actually lead to medical breakthroughs. His concern is that biomedical research is committed to this idea because they have a tool they are eager to use — not because they have a clear path ahead.
Iranian students scuffle with police at the University of Tehran on Saturday during a demonstration driven by anger over economic problems.Updated at 7:51 a.m. ET MondayThousands of Iranians have taken to the streets in recent days, with many protesters calling for the removal of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.The government warned on Sunday that protesters would suffer severe consequences if demonstrations continued and 10 protesters were reported killed, according to the Associated Press and Reuters."Those who damage public property, violate law and order and create unrest are responsible for their actions and should pay the price," Interior Minister Abdolreza Rahmani Fazli told Iranian state media, according to Reuters.In one Associated Press report, "The public discontent has been fanned by messages sent on the Telegram messaging app, which Iranian authorities blocked Sunday along with the photo-sharing app Instagram, which is owned by tech giant Facebook."Two protesters were shot in the town of Dorud in Iran's Lorestan province Saturday night, the government confirmed.The deputy governor of Lorestan, Habibollah Khojastehpour, said foreign agents were responsible. "No shots were fired by the police and security forces. We have found evidence of enemies of the revolution, [Sunni militant] groups and foreign agents in this clash," according to a Reuters translation of comments on the semi-official Mehr News.Some demonstrations have turned violent. "Protesters have attacked banks and government buildings and burned a police motorcycle," the wire service says.Authorities said Saturday at least 50 protesters had been arrested, The Associated Press reports. On Sunday, the semi-official news organization ILNA said authorities arrested about 80 protesters in Arak, a city southwest of Tehran.Other motivations behind protests are frustration over economic struggles and alleged corruption, reports say.President Trump tweeted three times in support of protesters on Friday and Saturday:"The entire world understands that the good people of Iran want change, and, other than the vast military power of the United States, that Iran's people are what their leaders fear the most," he added in another tweet. In a third, he wrote: "Oppressive regimes cannot endure forever, and the day will come when the Iranian people will face a choice. The world is watching!"He continued Sunday morning, mentioning that Iranians are "finally getting wise as to how their money and wealth is being stolen and squandered on terrorism" and "they will not take it any longer."Iranians are blocked from entering the U.S. as part of the Trump administration's travel ban, a fact not lost on the Iranian government, with Qassemi calling it "spiteful."The demonstrations are the biggest in Iran since the disputed 2009 re-election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
